# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for the study item "Study on
latency reduction techniques for LTE" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to
capture the findings from TSG RAN WG2 and WG1 according to their respective
objectives, and to draw a conclusion on way forward.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
potential impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP
systems.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which through reference in this
text constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-150465, New SI proposal: Study on Latency reduction techniques for LTE,
Ericsson, RAN#67, March 2015.
[3] R2-152326, Latency reductions in LTE, Ericsson, RAN2#90, May 2015
[4] R2-152174, Impact of latency reduction on TCP slow-start behaviour, Intel
Corp. RAN2#90, May 2015
[5] R2-152456, Evaluation on the gains provided by 0.5ms TTI, Huawei,
HiSilicon, RAN2#90, May 2015
[6] R2-154743, Email discussion report for [91#29][LTE/Latency] Evaluation
results, RAN2#91, October 2015
[7] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Physical layer procedures".
[9] R2-156340 Performance evaluation on short TTI, ZTE Corporation, RAN2#92,
Nov 2015
[10] R2-156278 L2 overhead for shorter TTI, Nokia Networks, RAN2#92, Nov 2015
[11] R2-156202, Report of email discussion [91bis#35] [LTE/LATRED] Handover
evaluations and solutions, RAN2#92, November 2015
[12] **3GPP TS 36.300, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2"**
[13] 3GPP TS 36.331, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification"
[14] 3GPP TS 36.133, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management"
[15] 3GPP TS 36.321, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification"
[16] R2-154191, Contention based uplink transmission, Huawei, HiSilicon,
RAN2#91bis, October 2015
[17] R2-154122, Analysis on resource efficiency of uplink access solutions,
CATT, CATR, RAN2#91bis, October 2015
[18] R2-156402, Performance evaluation of CB-PUSCH, Nokia Networks, RAN2#92,
November 2015
[19] 3GPP TR 36.828, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further enhancements to LTE Time Division Duplex (TDD) for Downlink-Uplink
(DL-UL) interference management and traffic adaptation"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Study Objectives
Potential gains like reduced response time and improved TCP throughput due to
latency improvements on typical applications and use cases are identified and
documented. In this evaluation, latency reductions due to protocol
enhancements as well as shortened TTIs are assumed. Specifically, the
following items should apply:
\- Consider the web application (HTTP/FTP+TCP) use case and analyse the
possible gains in the performance metrics of delay and perceived data rate for
TCP based data transactions.
\- Consider real-time application use case and analyse the possible gains in
delay, service coverage and system capacity.
\- Other areas in accordance with [2] may be considered as well
\- Aspects of complexity, energy-consumption, signalling overhead and resource
efficiency should be considered.
The evaluations include active UEs and UEs that have been inactive a longer
time, but are kept in RRC Connected. Reducing user plane latency for the
scheduled UL transmission with resource efficient solution as a result of
protocol and signalling enhancements are studied and compared to the pre-
scheduling solutions allowed by the standard today.
Specification impact, feasibility and performance of TTI lengths between 0.5ms
and one OFDM symbol are studied, taking into account impact on e.g. L2
overhead, reference signals and physical layer control signalling.
Backwards compatibility shall be preserved, i.e. solutions should allow normal
operation of pre-Rel 13 UEs on the same carrier.
# 5 Overview of LTE latency
In an LTE system there are multiple components contributing to the total end
to end delay for connected UEs. The limitations in performance are in general
use case dependent; for which e.g. UL latency may influence the DL application
performance and vice versa.
## 5.1 Delay components
### 5.1.1 UL and DL latency
Examples of sources to latency are listed below. For UL, a signalling chart is
shown in Figure 5.1.1-1. For DL, a corresponding signalling chart is shown in
Figure 5.1.1-2. In this example, UL synchronization is assumed.
Figure 5.1.1-1: Overview of UL transmission delay. Does not include
retransmissions.
Figure 5.1.1-2: Overview of DL transmission delay. Does not include
retransmissions
**Grant acquisition**
A UE with data to send must send a Scheduling Request (SR) and receive a
scheduling grant before transmitting the data packet. In order to send a SR it
must wait for a SR-valid PUCCH resource and a corresponding scheduling grant
transmitted to the UE in response. When the grant is decoded the data
transmission can start over PUSCH.
**Random access**
If the UL timing of a UE is not aligned, initial time alignment is acquired
with the random access procedure. The time alignment can be maintained with
timing advance commands from the eNB to the UE. However, it may be desirable
to stop the maintenance of UL time alignment after a period of inactivity,
thus the duration of the random access procedure may contribute to the overall
latency in RRC_CONNECTED. The random access procedure also serves as an UL
grant acquisition mechanism (Random Access based Scheduling Request).
Therefore, for cases where random access is needed, no separate PUCCH based SR
procedure/step is needed.
**Transmission Time Interval (TTI)**
The transmission of a request, grant, or data is done in subframe chunks with
a fixed duration (1 ms), which is the source of a delay per packet exchange
between the UE and the eNodeB.
**Processing**
Data and control need to be processed (e.g., encoded and decoded) in the UE
and eNodeB. Data processing is a source of processing delays, which are
proportional to the TB size. The processing of control information is
typically less dependent on TB size.
**HARQ Round Trip Time (RTT)**
For UL transmission in FDD, the hybrid-ARQ acknowledgement for a packet
received by the eNodeB in subframe _n_ is reported in subframe _n+4_. If a
retransmission is needed by the UE this is done in subframe _n+8_. Thus the
hybrid-ARQ RTT is 8 ms for FDD UL. For TDD, RTT depends on TDD Configuration.
The RTT for DL transmissions is not specified in detail, as the HARQ scheme is
asynchronous. The HARQ feedback is available at subframe _n+4_ in FDD, and
retransmissions can typically be scheduled in subframe _n+8_ or later if
needed.
**Core / Internet**
In the core network, packets can be queued due to congestion and delayed due
to transmission over backhaul links. Internet connections can be congested and
therefore add to the experienced end-to-end packet delay. EPC and/or Internet
delays vary widely. In the context of latency reductions, it is reasonable to
assume that latency performance of the transport links is good.
Note: In the context of evaluations in this study, a Core/internet latency
component between 1-20 ms is assumed.
### 5.1.2 Handover latency [11]
Figure 5.1.2-1 below shows intra E-UTRAN handover procedure (Figure
10.1.2.1.1-1 of [12]) with the focus on handover execution phase, i.e., only
step 7 to step 11.
Figure 5.1.2-1: Handover execution procedure
**Step 7: RRC Connection Reconfiguration Incl._mobilityControlInfo_**
In this step, the UE receives the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message with
necessary parameters (i.e. new C-RNTI, target eNB security algorithm
identifiers, and optionally dedicated RACH preamble, target eNB SIBs, etc.)
and is commanded by the source eNB to perform the HO [12]. RRC procedure delay
includes RRC Connection Reconfiguration including _mobilityControlInfo_ as
well as related reconfigurations, including [12] [13]:
\- Layer 2 reset / reconfiguration
\- Reset MAC.
\- Re-establish/reconfigure PDCP and RLC for all RBs that are established.
\- Enable integrity protection and ciphering of RRC messages.
\- Layer 3 reconfiguration (e.g. measurement configuration)
**As per** section 11.2 of TS 36.331 [13], for handover, the maximum allowed
delay for RRC procedure is 15 ms.
**Step 8: SN Status Transfer**
In this step, the source eNB sends the SN STATUS TRANSFER message to the
target eNB to convey the uplink PDCP SN receiver status and the downlink PDCP
SN transmitter status of E-RABs for which PDCP status preservation applies
(i.e. for RLC AM).
Since this is eNB to eNB signalling which is not related to air interface and
it can be done in parallel with step 9 below, the delay contribution of this
step can be considered negligible total handover latency.
**Step 9: Synchronization**
After receiving handover command (i.e., Step 7: _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message including _mobilityControlInfo_), the UE may perform the following in
this step [12] [13]:
\- Physical layer synchronization and reconfiguration
\- Start synchronizing to the DL of the target PCell.
\- Reconfigure physical layer.
\- Access the target cell via RACH (following a contention-free procedure if a
dedicated RACH preamble was indicated in the _mobilityControlInfo_ , or
following a contention-based procedure if no dedicated preamble was indicated)
\- Layer 2 reconfiguration
\- Security key update: UE derives target eNB specific keys and configures the
selected security algorithms to be used in the target cell.
According to TS 36.133 [14], when the UE receives a RRC message implying
handover the UE shall be ready to start the transmission of the new uplink
PRACH channel within D~handover~ seconds from the end of the last TTI
containing the RRC command, where D~handover~ is the sum of RRC procedure
delay and the "interruption time". The interruption time is defined as the
time between end of the last TTI containing the RRC command on the old PDSCH
and the time the UE starts transmission of the new PRACH, excluding the RRC
procedure delay.
Interruption time includes:
\- Target cell search
\- UE processing time for RF/baseband retuning, derive target eNB specific
keys, configure security algorithm to be used in target cell
\- RACH procedure related (uncertainty delay to acquire RACH opportunity
followed by PRACH preamble transmission)
**Step 9.1: Target cell search:** As, in most cases, target cell is selected
based on UE measurement reports and can be assumed to be "known", the delay
due to this step can be considered to be 0 ms for this study.
**Step 9.2: UE processing time for RF/baseband re-tuning, security update:**
While the exact value can vary significantly based on various parameters, for
the purpose of this SI, we consider UE processing time (for RF/baseband
retuning, derive target eNB specific keys, configure security algorithm to be
used in target cell) to be 20 ms as defined in TS 36.133.
**Step 9.3: Delay to acquire first available PRACH in target eNB:**
Considering a typical RACH configuration where PRACH is available every 5
subframes, the minimum delay for this step 0.5ms and a typical delay would be
2.5 ms.
**Step 9.4 PRACH preamble transmission:** The last delay element in step 9 is
1 subframe required for PRACH preamble transmission.
**Step 10: UL Allocation + TA for UE**
In this step, the target eNB responds with UL allocation and timing advance.
This corresponds to RAR from target eNB.
Assuming LTE FDD and that subframe number is continuously numbered, if UE
sends RACH preamble in subframe _n_ , following current specification, eNB can
send RAR as early as in subframe _n_ +3 (section 5.1.4 of TS 36.321[15]).
**Assuming that the grant decoding and/or TA delay is not included in this
step, the minimum delay of this step would be 3ms and typical/average delay
would be 5ms.**
**Step 11: UE sends RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete**
When the UE has successfully accessed the target cell, the UE sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message (C-RNTI) to confirm the
handover, along with an uplink Buffer Status Report, whenever possible, to the
target eNB to indicate that the handover procedure is completed for the UE.
The target eNB verifies the C-RNTI sent in the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message. The target eNB can now begin
sending data to the UE [12].
According to section 6.1.1 of TS 36.213 [8], UE can then send
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ as early as after k~1~ >= 6 subframes,
i.e., the delay of this step is typically 6 ms. This includes UE Processing
Delay (decoding of scheduling grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL
data) and transmission of RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete.
## 5.2 Current performance
### 5.2.1 UL and DL latency
As an example, a simple assessment of important sources of latency for an UL
transmission is presented in Table 1. Assuming Rel-8 functionality the average
waiting time for a PUCCH at a periodicity of 10 ms is 5 ms, leading to a radio
access latency sum of 17 ms in the example. With a SR period set to 1 ms, the
average waiting time is reduced to 0.5 ms, which would lead to a sum of 12.5
ms in this example. Corresponding values for a DL transmission are given in
Table 2.
Table 5.2.1-1: Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9) for an
UL transmission from a UE without a valid uplink grant
Table 5.2.1-2: Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9) for a
DL transmission
From the tables it can be seen that grant acquisition delay, transmission and
data processing times are additive.
### 5.2.2 Handover latency [11]
As another example, based on discussion in Section 5.1.2, a simple assessment
of sources of latency during handover execution is presented in Table 5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1: Minimum/Typical radio access latency components (Rel. 8/Rel. 9)
during handover
Component/ Step Description Time (ms)
* * *
7 RRC Connection Reconfiguration Incl. _mobilityControlInfo_ 15 8 SN Status
Transfer 0 9.1 Target cell search 0 9.2 UE processing time for RF/baseband re-
tuning, security update 20 9.3 Delay to acquire first available PRACH in
target eNB 0.5/2.5 9.4 PRACH preamble transmission 1 10 UL Allocation + TA for
UE 3/5 11 UE sends RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete 6 Minimum/Typical
Total delay [ms] 45.5/49.5
It should be noted that above values assume successful transmission at first
attempt. This may not always be true especially for handover scenarios where
channel quality may be degraded. The actual delay values can be higher if some
steps require retransmissions.
Based on above discussion, we see that total latency during HO process
consists of various elements, as depicted in Figure 5.2.2-1. Service
interruption time in handover can be defined as the duration between the time
when UE stops transmission/reception with the source eNB and the time when
target eNB resumes transmission/reception with the UE.
{width="5.051388888888889in" height="1.5381944444444444in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1: Service interruption time in handover
Broadly, the various delay components fall into one of the following three
categories:
\- RRC procedure delay, including RRC signalling processing (step 7)
\- UE processing time, including delay for RF/baseband retuning, derive target
eNB specific keys, configure security algorithm to be used in target cell
(step 9.2)
\- RACH procedure and _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ , including delay
to acquire first RACH occasion in the target cell (steps 9.3 to 11)
Among these, the following steps contribute to a major portion of total delay
and can be **addressed for possible latency reduction:**
\- RACH procedure including delay to acquire first available PRACH in target
cell, PRACH preamble transmission and UL allocation + TA (steps 9.3, 9.4, 10),
\- UE processing time after RA procedure including decoding of scheduling
grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL data, and transmission of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ (step 11).
## 5.3 Existing means to limit latency
With a short SR period, e.g. 1ms, the control plane overhead is increased
which may reduce resource efficiency as more PUCCH resources in the cell to
support the same number of users is needed. In addition, PUCCH resources are
assigned and reconfigured with dedicated RRC signaling.
Pre-scheduling of scheduling grants uses PDCCH resources, and the granted
PUSCH resources cannot be used by other UEs, which may limit the radio
resource utilization. Further, the UE is expected to send a zero padded
transmission also if the buffer of the scheduled UE is empty.
With SPS, periodic UL/DL resources can currently not be configured more
frequently than every 10 subframes. Also with UL SPS, the UE is expected to
send zero padded transmissions that may come with associated inefficient UE
battery performance and increased UL interference.
# 6 Scenarios, Applications and Use Cases
A number of existing and new applications will benefit from reduced latency.
Example of existing applications that would be positively impacted by reduced
latency in terms of increased perceived quality of experience are TCP based
applications, gaming, real-time applications like VoLTE/OTT VoIP and video
telephony/conferencing.
For new applications it is expected that some will be increasingly delay
critical; examples include remote control/driving of vehicles, augmented
reality applications in e.g. smart glasses, or specific machine communications
requiring low latency as well as critical communications.
It should be noted that applications/use cases have different characteristics
and may be subject to different bottlenecks and benefit differently from
particular improvements in latency.
# 7 Evaluation Structure and Assumptions
Void
# 8 Solutions for latency reduction
## 8.1 Semi-Persistent Scheduling
With current Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS), the eNodeB may configure SPS
periodicity via dedicated RRC signalling. Current minimum SPS periodicity is
10ms. Supporting a SPS periodicity of 1TTI is beneficial as this may reduce
the latency of initial UL transmissions. This would allow UL transmission in
consecutive subframes.
## 8.2 UL Grant reception
In current specifications, the UE sends a MAC PDU containing a MAC CE for
padding BSR and optionally padding bits in response to an allocated UL dynamic
or configured grant even if no data is available for transmission in the UE
buffer and no other regular MAC CE is needed to be sent. It is beneficial to
allow UEs to skip (most) dynamic and configured uplink grants if no data is
available for transmission. With frequent UL grants, allowing skipping UL
grants may decrease UL interference and improve UE battery efficiency. The UE
will continue to send one or more regular MAC CE(s), if any. The eNB may
enable skipping UL grants by RRC dedicated signalling.
### 8.2.1 Configured SPS activation and deactivation
The SPS resources are UE specific and may be reserved (configured and active)
for a longer period in time. As such, it is in some cases considered useful
for the eNB to be timely aligned with the UE state on activated or deactivated
SPS resource(s), and if UL transmissions might occur in the granted SPS
resource allocation instances.
An acknowledgement in response to a PDCCH grant indication activation could
for example consist of an UE transmitted **new MAC PDU containing zero MAC
SDUs on the first SPS granted resource to indicate successful activation when
the UE buffer is empty.**
If the PDCCH grant indicating activation is not received, and UE has UL data
to be transmitted, it is assumed that the UE would initiate a SR procedure if
no other action is performed by the eNB.
For Deactivation, the eNB can indicate release of SPS resources on PDCCH. Also
in these cases the eNB would in some cases benefit from being timely aligned
with the UE state on activate or deactivated SPS resource(s).
Similarly to activation, a single transmission could be used also as
deactivation acknowledgement as in instances of skipped transmissions as the
absence of a UL transmission cannot be used as an implicit
deactivation/release acknowledgement mechanism. Other means may thus be
beneficial to specify.
Acknowledgment based Pro's
1 With an acknowledgment on the PDCCH grant activating or deactivating the SPS
allocation, the eNB may be able to distinguish from cases where the PDCCH is
missed by the UE.
2 With a higher degree of robustness of the activation/deactivation mechanism,
the eNB may not have to repeat unnecessarily the SPS grant.
3 A activation and deactivation acknowledgement mechanism may allow for less
conservative use of preconfigured SPS resources and may allow decreased PDCCH
load as lower aggregation level can be used.
4 An acknowledged activation/deactivation of the SPS grant resources may
reduce DRX misalignment.
Acknowledgement based Con's
1 Unnecessary UE battery consumption in instances of empty UE buffer at
activation/deactivation;
2 DRX impacted by the additional UL transmission including the HARQ wait time
(handling of inactivity timer /short cycle timer)
3 Increased uplink interference in instances where the SPS allocation is
changed due to e.g. PDCCH activation/deactivation and where the UE buffer is
empty.
4 New UE behaviour needed for deactivation/release acknowledgment.
5 DRX misalignment probability may be increased due to loss of ACK compared to
if ACK is received correctly
6 SPS resources may be unused for a duration as a result of a missing ACK
after successful PDCCH reception.
Acknowledgement free Pro's
1 Relies on the legacy behaviour that the UE in the rare cases of PDCCH loss
(e.g. 1%) and non-empty buffer may initiate a SR procedure (alt. RACH
procedure). The eNB may then re-initialise SPS or allocate a dynamic grant for
the UE to compensate the PDCCH loss.
2 No additional UL transmissions that may cause interference in instances
where the SPS allocation is changed due to e.g. PDCCH activation/deactivation
and the UE buffer is empty.
3 UE may go earlier to DRX
4 UE behaviour simplified and no new behaviour at deactivation is needed.
Acknowledgement free Con's
1 Increased PDCCH aggregation level may need to be used which increases the
PDCCH resource usage
2 SPS resources may be unused until a SR procedure has been initiated by the
UE missing the PDCCH
3 SPS deactivation on PDCCH may need repetition to have robust SPS resource
release
4 SPS resources are not released after release indication and are only
detected at first periodic grant allocation opportunity after the release
signalling time instance.
## 8.3 Handover Latency
One possible area of improvement where several existing and new applications
could benefit from is to minimize latency during handovers for a mobile UE.
Although TCP based applications could recover from errors introduced by poor
radio conditions during handovers, the delay introduced by handovers for real
time applications is least desired. Two potential solutions to reduce latency
during HO are provided below.
### 8.3.1 Solution 1: RACH-less handover
The solution of RACH-less handover can be introduced when the source cell, the
target cell and the UE are synchronized. In a synchronized network, it is
assumed that subframe boundary between the source cell and target cell are
aligned. One option is that at a mutually agreed time (e.g. SFN), the UE
switches from source cell to target cell, without requiring random access
procedure. Another option is that the UE follows the legacy handover procedure
but skips the RACH related steps. A RACH attempt procedure during handovers
typically takes \~10\~12 ms. An average handover procedure takes \~40\~50 ms
to complete. Eliminating \~10\~12 ms of RACH delay during a handover procedure
can significantly reduce the data interruption during handovers and improve
the user experience.
The synchronization may be achieved between the two eNB cells over X2
signalling and the UE via RRC signalling. Based on the fact that all three
nodes are in sync, the source cell stops DL transmission to the UE, the target
cell provides an uplink grant to the UE, and the UE acquires the target.
**Target cell TA without RACH**
One of the main purposes of RACH procedure during HO is to obtain target cell
TA. In absence of RACH procedure, the UE may be able to obtain the target cell
TA without explicit TA command when the source cell and the target cell are
time synchronized. As illustrated in Figure 8.X.2-1, the UE first obtains the
DL propagation delay difference between the source cell and the target cell
(i.e., T1-T2). Assuming the UL propagation delay is the same as the DL
propagation delay, the UE can derive the target cell TA from the source cell
TA by:
TA~target~ = TA~source~ -- 2 (T~1~ -- T~2~).
NOTE: The accuracy of the target cell TA obtained by this method needs to be
further checked by RAN4.
{width="3.2805555555555554in" height="1.4395833333333334in"}
Figure 8.3.1-1: Obtain target cell TA
**UL grant allocation for handover command response**
Another purpose of RACH procedure during HO is to obtain UL grant for the
transmission of the handover command response (i.e., RRC Connection
Reconfiguration Complete message). In absence of RACH procedure in target eNB,
allocation of UL grant is needed in the target cell. One option is UL grant
pre-allocation in handover command. The pre-allocated UL grant can be kept
valid within a period of time, starting from the time when the UE achieves
synchronization with the target cell. Another option is UL grant allocation by
dynamic scheduling in the target cell. The target cell allocates UL grant to
the UE by dynamic scheduling from the time when it expects the UE to be
available for scheduling (e.g., based on mutually agreed time, or sometime
later after the handover preparation procedure which is subject to eNB
implementation).
The initial value of PUSCH transmission power control is based on PRACH
preamble power and total power ramp. If PRACH procedure is removed, power
control in PUSCH should be modified. The impact in uplink power control needs
to be studied by RAN1.
### 8.3.2 Solution 2: Maintaining Source eNB Connection during Handover
**This solution can reduce data interruption during handover (HO) by not
releasing the connection to the source eNB until handover is completed at the
target eNB. Continuous transmission of user data from source cell well after
handover procedure start can significantly improve the user experience.**
**In current LTE HO, the UE resets MAC and reestablishes PDCP upon receiving
the HO command and thus communication with the source eNB is stopped. The data
disruption will happen until the UE receives the first packet from the target
eNB. The proposal is to delay the MAC and PDCP reset until the UE performs
successful RACH at the target eNB. This requires that the UE monitor both
source and target links simultaneously, which is similar to Dual Connectivity
on the same frequency. To continue the data transmission with the source eNB,
the UE should continue sending CSI and HARQ feedback to the source eNB.
However, if the radio link quality becomes bad, this shouldn't force the UE to
declare RLF since that would trigger RRC Connection Re-establishment.
Therefore, RLM for the source eNB needs to be suspended until the end of
handover (success or failure). The impact on uplink transmission should be
evaluated if the UE still sends uplink signal in bad radio link quality due to
suspension of RLM.**
**This solution can provide the additional benefit of returning back to the
source eNB if handover fails. When RACH is completed successfully at the
target eNB, the source eNB should be made aware that it can stop transmissions
to the UE. This indication can come from the UE or from the target eNB with
the X2 option being more efficient due to better reliability.**
Under current specifications, the UE cannot transmit simultaneously to source
cell and target cell on the same frequency although this may be feasible by
using multiple RF chains at least on downlink while uplink may require changes
such as TDM operation. Since this can impact physical layer procedures, this
solution should also be studied by RAN1/RAN4.
## 8.4 Contention based PUSCH transmission
In the pre-scheduling scheme allowed by current specifications, the eNB will
assign one separate UL grant for each UE in each pre-scheduling interval, and
the assigned UL grant will be wasted if one UE has no available data to
transmit during one pre-scheduling interval. For contention based PUSCH
transmission, multiple UEs may share the same PUSCH resource (either
dynamically granted or configured). Collision will happen if two or more UEs
that share the same PUSCH resource perform the PUSCH transmission at the same
time, and in this case the eNB may not be able to successfully decode all of
the PUSCH transmissions. Contention based PUSCH transmission allows more
efficient PUSCH resource utilization compared to the existing pre-scheduling
scheme. However, as a result of collision, the potential retransmissions can
result in increased latency for colliding UEs.
### 8.4.1 Solution 1 [16]
This contention based PUSCH transmission scheme is featured with UE
identification even if collision happens. If the UE has available data to
transmit and no collision happens, the initial transmission is identical with
the existing PUSCH transmission. Nevertheless, when the initial transmission
fails, the eNB needs to schedule the retransmission on a dedicated PUSCH
resource to avoid the potential collision. If the UE has available data to
transmit and unfortunately collision happens, for each of the colliding UE,
since the eNB can distinguish it, the eNB can either first respond by PHICH
ACK to hold the uplink transmission and later schedule the retransmission on a
dedicated PUSCH resource, or immediately schedule the retransmission on a
dedicated PUSCH resource, so as to avoid further collision. A UE configured
with contention based PUSCH transmission also needs to be configured with UL
grants skipping if no available data to transmit (as described in section 8.2)
to minimize the potential collision.
An example of distinguishing the colliding UEs is DMRS-based UE
identification. The eNB may allocate different DMRS resources (i.e. different
DMRS Cyclic Shifts) to different UEs that share the same PUSCH resource, so
that the eNB can identify the exact UE that performed the PUSCH transmission
even if collision happens. In the current specification, there are 8 different
DMRS resources. In some scenarios, the eNB may only use part of them (e.g. 4
out of 8) to maximize the orthogonality.
If the contention based PUSCH resource is assigned by dynamic scheduling, then
there is no impact to the current specifications, as the DMRS Cyclic Shift can
be provided by the DCI for uplink scheduling. If the contention based PUSCH
resource is assigned during SPS activation, considering that the DMRS Cyclic
Shift provided in the DCI for SPS activation is fixed to \'000\', RRC
specification needs to be updated so that the eNB can provide the DMRS Cyclic
Shift to the UE in SPS configuration.
### 8.4.2 Solution 2 [17]
The characteristics of this CB PUSCH mechanism are given as below:
\- More than one UE shares the same CB resource indicated by CB grant;
\- If UE needs to transmit uplink data, it monitors CB grant, and transmits
the data on the indicated CB resource; otherwise, UE is not required to
monitor CB grant;
\- If only one UE transmits data on the CB resource, there is no collision:
\- Based on the received data eNB can acquire the related UE information, and
gives the response to that UE;
\- Otherwise, if more than one CB UE transmits data simultaneously, the
collision happens:
\- For eNB, it cannot successfully decode the data received on CB resource,
and does not give any feedback to UE;
\- For UE, it can realize the collision by not receiving any feedback, and
perform the following actions:
\- Flush the HARQ buffer for this CB transmission;
\- Indicate the transmission failure information to RLC, and RLC performs the
related RLC PDU retransmission;
\- Perform backoff mechanism, and the next CB transmission can be performed
after a random backoff time;
NOTE: Here we assume the value of backoff time is between 0 and 10ms.
NOTE: HARQ retransmission is not supported by CB-PUSCH transmission.
## 8.5 Reduced TTI and processing time
For FS1:
\- It is recommended to support a design that is based on 2-symbol sTTI and
1-slot sTTI for sPDSCH/sPDCCH
\- It is recommended to support a design that is based on 2-symbol sTTI,
4-symbol sTTI, and 1-slot sTTI for sPUCCH/sPUSCH
\- During the WI phase, down-selection is not precluded
For FS2:
\- It is recommended to support a design that is based on 1-slot sTTI for
sPDSCH/sPDCCH/sPUSCH/sPUCCH for FS2 TDD in Rel-14
\- It is recommended to consider enhancements including other shorter sTTI
duration(s), and additional DL-UL switching points/ additional subframe types
for FS2 TDD latency reduction in Rel-15
In the design of reduced TTI and processing time the following design
assumptions are made:
\- PSS/SSS, PBCH, PCFICH and PRACH, Random access, SIB and Paging procedures
are not modified,
\- No shortened TTI spans over subframe boundary, and
\- At least for SIBs and paging, PDCCH and legacy PDSCH are used for
scheduling.
To allow multiplexing of non-sTTI and sTTI it is assumed that from eNB
perspective, existing non-sTTI and sTTI can be FDMed in the same subframe in
the same carrier.
A specific DL control channel sPDCCH (PDCCH for short TTI) needs to be
introduced for short TTI. Each short TTI on DL may contain sPDCCH decoding
candidates. From resource utilization perspective, sPDSCH assigned by a sPDCCH
can be mapped to resources that are left unused by any sPDCCH. CRS-based
sPDCCH is recommended to be supported. DMRS-based sPDCCH is recommended to be
supported.
For PDSCH transmission in sTTI (sPDSCH for short TTI), both CRS based TMs and
DMRS based TMs are recommended to be supported for DL sTTI transmission. No
change for CRS definition is envisioned.
For sPDSCH based on a CRS based transmission scheme the maximum number of
supported layers is 4.
For sPDSCH based on a DM-RS based transmission scheme shall be down-selected
among the following options
\- the maximum number of supported layers is 2
\- the maximum number of supported layers is 4
\- the maximum number of supported layers is 8
If DL data transmission is scheduled in a short TTI, the processing time for
preparing the HARQ feedback by UE and the processing time for preparing a
potential retransmission by eNB are assumed to be reduced compared the case of
a DL transmission associated with legacy TTI.
A UE is expected to handle the following cases in the same carrier in a
subframe:
\- Receiving legacy TTI non-unicast PDSCH and short TTI unicast PDSCH(s)
\- Receiving legacy TTI non-unicast PDSCH and legacy TTI unicast PDSCH
For PUSCH transmission in sTTI (sPUSCH for short TTI), a UE can be dynamically
(with a subframe to subframe granularity) scheduled with PUSCH and/or sPUSCH.
A UE is not expected to transmit PUSCH and short TTI sPUSCH simultaneously on
the same REs, i.e. by superposition. It is recommended to support PHICH-less
asynchronous UL HARQ for PUSCH scheduled in a short TTI (i.e. for sPUSCH).
For DM-RS of sPUSCH, the followings are recommended to be supported:
\- For the case of 1-slot TTI length, reuse the current DM-RS
\- For the case of less than 1-slot TTI length, support DM-RS
sharing/multiplexing of consecutive TTIs from one or multiple UEs
\- At least 2 contiguous TTIs can be shared/multiplexed.
The following principles on sPUSCH are recommended to be supported:
\- UCI transmission on sPUSCH is supported
NOTE: The UCI herein refers to at least the ones for sTTI operations
The following sPUCCH formats are recommended to be supported
\- One sPUCCH format for HARQ-ACK and/or SR feedback for a serving cell
\- sPUCCH format(s) for multiple HARQ-ACK bits, e.g. as in CA and frame
structure type 2
\- The amount of sPUCCH formats to support is depending on the maximum
identified payload size to support
\- sPUCCH format allows for multiplexing of HARQ-ACK and SR
If UL data transmission is scheduled in a short TTI, the processing time for
preparing UL data transmission upon UL grant reception at UE and the
processing time for scheduling a potential retransmission by eNB are assumed
to be reduced compared the case of a UL transmission associated with legacy
TTI.
It is recommended to reduce the maximum TA for short TTI operation with
processing time reduction compared to Rel-13.
A single minimum delay between UL grant and UL data and between DL data and DL
HARQ feedback is recommended to be supported for a given sTTI length.
The minimum timing for UL grant to UL data and for DL data to DL HARQ is n + k
sTTI for short TTI operation;
\- Processing time >= the legacy processing time linearly downscaled with TTI
length
\- 4 \ eNB delay | 0, 5, 10, 20, 30, 50 | | (ms) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | FTP File Size | 10KByte, 100KByte, 1MByte, | | | 2MByte, 5MByte | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uu throughput (Mbps) | 27.907Mbps (MCS=20, PRB_Num=50) | | | | | | 2.848 (MCS=12, PRB_Num=10) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TTI Duration | 1ms (as baseline) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Available PRB number for LR UE | 50 (for 20MHz BW) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Target Packet Error Rate | 0.1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max Transmission times | 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ RTT | 8*TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 9.1.5.3 Performance results
##### 9.1.5.3.1 Various backhaul latency
Assuming FTP file size 100KByte, Table 9.1.5.3.1-1 and Figure 9.1.5.2-1 give
the improvement of each TTI length for various backhaul latency, with taking
various L1 overhead (L1_OH) into account.
Table 9.1.5.3.1-1: Backhaul latency
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | TTI | L | | AppS | | | | | | | l | 1_OH | | erver | | | | | | | ength | | | \ | | | | | | | (in | | | eNB | | | | | | | OFDM | | | la | | | | | | | s | | | tency | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | | nu | | | | | | | | | | mber) | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | | 0ms | 5ms | 10ms | 20ms | 30ms | 50ms | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | 20% | DRT | 0.183 | 0.263 | 0.342 | 0.500 | 0.660 | 0.977 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | (Base | | | | | | | | | (base | line) | | | | | | | | | line) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | 10% | DRT | 0.097 | 0.171 | 0.251 | 0.410 | 0.571 | 0.891 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.80% | | | | | 6.99% | 4.98% | 6.61% | 8.00% | 3.48% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.102 | 0.176 | 0.255 | 0.413 | 0.574 | 0.894 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.50% | | | | | 4.26% | 3.08% | 5.44% | 7.40% | 3.03% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.105 | 0.177 | 0.256 | 0.414 | 0.574 | 0.895 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.39% | | | | | 2.62% | 2.70% | 5.15% | 7.20% | 3.03% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.120 | 0.186 | 0.258 | 0.416 | 0.577 | 0.896 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 3 | 2 | 2 | 1 | 1 | 8.29% | | | | | 4.43% | 9.28% | 4.56% | 6.80% | 2.58% | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | 10% | DRT | 0.058 | 0.124 | 0.203 | 0.363 | 0.523 | 0.842 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 8.31% | 2.85% | 0.64% | 7.40% | 0.76% | 3.82% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.062 | 0.127 | 0.203 | 0.363 | 0.524 | 0.843 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 6.12% | 1.71% | 0.64% | 7.40% | 0.61% | 3.72% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.067 | 0.130 | 0.203 | 0.364 | 0.524 | 0.843 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 2 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 3.39% | 0.57% | 0.64% | 7.20% | 0.61% | 3.72% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.085 | 0.143 | 0.213 | 0.368 | 0.529 | 0.848 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 1 | | | | | 3.55% | 5.63% | 7.72% | 6.40% | 9.85% | 3.20% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | 10% | DRT | 0.042 | 0.103 | 0.179 | 0.339 | 0.498 | 0.818 | | s | | | | | | | | | | ymbol | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 6 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 7.05% | 0.84% | 7.66% | 2.20% | 4.55% | 6.27% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 20% | DRT | 0.047 | 0.106 | 0.179 | 0.340 | 0.499 | 0.819 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 4.32% | 9.70% | 7.66% | 2.00% | 4.39% | 6.17% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 30% | DRT | 0.052 | 0.110 | 0.180 | 0.340 | 0.500 | 0.820 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 7 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 1.58% | 8.17% | 7.37% | 2.00% | 4.24% | 6.07% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 50% | DRT | 0.071 | 0.124 | 0.192 | 0.344 | 0.503 | 0.823 | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | Gain | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | | | | | 1.20% | 2.85% | 3.86% | 1.20% | 3.79% | 5.76% | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | DRT | | | | | | | | | | (sec) | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | stat | | | | | | | | | | istic | | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | | tric, | | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | ownlo | | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | | ponse | | | | | | | | | | time; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | calcu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | -DRT/ | | | | | | | | | | Basel | | | | | | | | | | ine_ | | | | | | | | | | DRT), | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | here, | | | | | | | | | | >0 | | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | | prove | | | | | | | | | | ment, | | | | | | | | | | \ _resource efficiency= (valid number of data transmission) / (total PUSCH
> resource for CB or SPS)._
NOTE: Valid number of data transmission = observation time * PAR5% * CB UE
number;
The comparison results are given in Table 9.2.2.3-1 (observation time = 100ms)
.
Table 9.2.2.3-1: Resource efficiency comparison
+------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | Case | Item | CB PUSCH | SPS | | +======+=================+=================+=================+========+ | 1 | 1ms SPS | Average UL | ≈7.5 ms | 7.5 ms | | | interval | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 2%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 1ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 2 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 4 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 100 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 4% | 2% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 2 | 2ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈8 ms | 8 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 6%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 2ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 4 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 8 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 50 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 8% | 4% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 3 | 3ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈8.5 ms | 8.5 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 10%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 3ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 5 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 10 (PAR=2%) | 2 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 33 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 10% | 6% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 4 | 4ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈9 ms | 9 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 19%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 4ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 4 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 20 (PAR=5%) | 5 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 25 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 20% | 20% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | 5 | 10ms SPS | | CB PUSCH | SPS | | | interval | | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Average UL | ≈12 ms | 12 ms | | | | latency | | | | | | | (Collision prob | | | | | | ≈ 37%) | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Grant interval | 1ms | 10ms | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | CB UE number | 3 | 1 | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Valid number of | 30 (PAR=10%) | 10 | | | | data | | | | | | transmission | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | Total PUSCH | 100 | 10 | | | | resource | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+ | | | PUSCH | 30% | 100% | | | | efficiency | | | +------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+--------+
**[Analysis]{.underline}**
From Table 9.2.2.3-1, it can be seen that the PUSCH efficiency improves with
the increased UL latency, both for the CB PUSCH and SPS solution. With the low
collision probability, CB PUSCH is better than SPS in PUSCH resource
efficiency aspect, e.g. collision probability is lower than 10%. However, with
higher collision probability, e.g. 37%, the PUSCH efficiency of CB PUSCH is
worse than that of SPS. In summary, CB PUSCH solution can improve radio
resource efficiency and provide good latency in case of lower collision
probability.
Observation 43. With the same latency performance as 1ms interval SPS, CB
PUSCH solution can improve radio resource efficiency in case of lower
collision probability.
### 9.2.3 Evaluation 2 on solution 1 [18]
In the following section, we evaluate the collision probability and UL delay
for CB-PUSCH transmissions. There are two cases: a) evaluation of CB-PUSCH
collision rate, in a scenario with CB-PUSCH users only (i.e. in the system
there are only the CB-PUSCH users), b) evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate,
while having in the system both CB-PUSCH only users and dynamically scheduled
users.
NOTE: In both cases, the re-transmissions are dynamically scheduled on non-CB
resources.
A) Evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate, in a scenario with only CB-PUSCH
users
In this case, there is only one contention based group, to which the users
could belong to in case they are using the CB-PUSCH resources. There are up to
6 UEs that could belong to this group, this assumption being based on the DMRS
orthogonality achieved by allocating different cyclic shifts to UEs that can
be supported by Rel-8.
In the evaluations, we have used UL traffic; with FTP model 3 [4] with static
number of UE and packet arrival according to Poisson process, having the file
size of 100 B. More parameters are given in Table A1.7-1 and Table A1.7-2 in
Annex A1.7. The evaluation is done for different packet arrival rates (PAR),
varying from low PAR 2% up to PAR 30% (i.e. approx. every 3^rd^ TTI there is a
file download).
In Figure 9.2.3-1 is shown the collision rate of CB-PUSCH and in Figure
9.2.3-2 is shown the average UL delay. The collision probability refers to
collision probability of the transmissions.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.010939413823272in" | | ng){width="3.0128215223097112in" | height="2.2542508748906385in"} | | height="2.2632786526684163in"} | | | | Figure 9.2.3-2: Average UL delay | | Figure 9.2.3-1: Collision rate | | | of CB-PUSCH | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results, we can observe that:
Observation 44.
\- Only for PAR 2% the collision rate stays below 10%. Increasing the PAR, the
collision rate increases up to \~70% in the case of PAR 30%. Of course, having
higher number of users per group increases the probability of collisions.
\- From the average UL latency point of view, taking as reference the legacy
D-SR UL grant scheme with an average delay of 12.5 ms, we can get better
performance in most of the cases i.e. unless there are very many collisions
than the legacy D-SR UL grant scheme with an average delay of 12.5 ms, but it
always has longer latency than 1ms pre-scheduling/SPS due to the collision.
The trade-off is UL overhead due to CB-PUSCH resources that are reserved even
though not always used. Figure 9.2.3-3 shows the trade-off between the UL
overhead and latency. The UL overhead here is relative to dynamic scheduling
of all transmissions.
{width="4.6819444444444445in" height="3.513888888888889in"}
Figure 9.2.3-3: Trade-off between UL overhead and avg. latency
From the results we can observe that:
Observation 45.
\- With low packet arrival rate, the CB-PUSCH resources are mostly unused,
which means large resource overhead and inefficiency.
\- With higher packet arrival rate the resource usage is more efficient, while
the latency reduction benefit diminishes.
B) Evaluation of CB-PUSCH collision rate, in a scenario with CB-PUSCH and
dynamically scheduled users
In this case, there are up to four contention-based groups, to which the users
could belong to in case they are using the CB-PUSCH resources. Up to 4 UEs
could belong to one group.
We have used FTP model 1 [3], with UE arrival according to Poisson process,
having the file size of 0.5 MB. More parameters are given in Table A1.7-1 and
Table A1.7-3 in Annex A1.7.
In the evaluations, we used DL traffic, having in UL TCP ACKs. This represents
as the 'best performance' case traffic for the CB-PUSCH, as increasing the UL
traffic the collisions and the delay would only increase even more.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="2.897222222222222in" | ng){width="2.7381944444444444in" | | height="2.747916666666667in"} | height="2.7756944444444445in"} | | | | | Figure 9.2.3-4: **Collision | Figure 9.2.3-5: Probability of | | rate** | full CB PUSCH groups | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results we can observe that:
Observation 46.
\- There is a high impact of the number of CB-groups per TTI: the lower the
number of CB-groups, the higher the collision probability (e.g. in case of one
CB-group, there is a 60% probability of collision, while with 4 CB-groups the
collision probability could reach up to 18%)
\- The collision probability depends on the load in the NW (simultaneously
active UE/cell) and also number of RB reserved for the CB
\- From the probability that all available CB PUSCH groups are full for
different loads and numbers of groups:
\- With 5 Mbps of offered DL load the probability of filling even one group of
4 UEs is zero
\- Two groups can tolerate up to 15 Mbps offered load without getting full,
three groups up to 20 Mbps and four groups up to 25 Mbps
One key point to observe it is the UL delay (E2E delay). In that case, our
reference case is legacy D-SR UL grant (with SR periodicity 5 ms). This aspect
is plotted for selected cases, corresponding for 10 Mbps and 25 Mbps offered
load.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.05625in" | | ng){width="3.0277777777777777in" | height="2.7194444444444446in"} | | height="2.747916666666667in"} | | | | Figure 9.2.3-7: UL end to end | | Figure 9.2.3-6: UL end to end | delay for 25 Mbps | | delay for 10 Mbps | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
From the results we can observe that:
Observation 47. SR-based UL grant gives more predictable delay performance
whereas the gains from CB-PUSCH are sensitive to load and number of UEs
sharing the same resources. High end of delay distribution is significantly
worse for CB-PUSCH, especially in high load.
## 9.3 Handover latency [11]
Figure 9.3-1 captures typical interruption time for legacy handover vs. gains
achieved by Synchronous handover. As can be seen from the figure 9.3-1 below,
the interruption time is much higher for UE's with more speed and the case of
higher number of small cells under a Macro cell. This is due to the fact that
if the UE moves with higher speed, it will experience more frequent handovers
than a UE with lower speed. The increased number of handovers, each
introducing some interruption time adds up to a higher overall delay. However,
the interruption time is significantly lower for the case of synchronized
handover. The fact remains, that the higher number of handover a UE
experiences, the higher will be the data interruption time. However, comparing
the two scenarios, the benefits are obvious with synchronized handover.
{width="4.766666666666667in" height="1.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 9.3-1: Average Percentage of the Interruption Time
## 9.4 Findings from system evaluations on TTI reduction and reduced
processing time
Findings from the results in Annex B for the scenario described in Annex A
with FTP over TCP traffic are summarized below.
The results of all sources reveal that shortening TTI length can have great
benefits in terms of user perceived throughput and latency. Source 10 shows
gains with shortening TTI for all UEs at all loads and for all file sizes in
case of negligible control overhead. In all sources with non-negligible
control overhead benefits are not always present but certain situations are
found to be favourable to observe gains with TTI shortening. With small file
sizes (100kbit, 100kB), shortening TTI length improves significantly the
performance of all UEs at low to medium load, while mostly good UEs and cell-
center UEs benefit from TTI shortening at high load. With medium file size
(500kB), cell-edge UEs have little benefit or may even experience performance
degradation in all load points, but good UEs and cell center UEs benefit for
most load points _._ With large file size (1MB), only cell center UEs benefit
from shortening TTI length.
All sources with results for different core network delays show that gains
when operating with shorter TTI reduce with larger core network delay but are
still very high at low load.
Most sources obtained smaller gains from shortening TTI with increased
resource utilization (RU) in most simulated scenarios. A less strong
correlation between RU and gains with shortened TTI was observed by two
sources.
In most cases, in the favourable situations for TTI shortening, gains are
larger with TTI lengths shorter than slot based TTI. However, it was found by
two sources that slot based TTI length may provide gains in more scenarios
than even shorter TTI. Source 10 shows better performance with 1 OS TTI than
all other TTI lengths in all simulated scenarios in case of negligible control
overhead and 0ms core network delay, while four other sources have more
contrasted results when using non- negligible control overhead. One of them
shows that performance gains with 1 OS TTI are smaller than with 2 OS TTI in
most cases. Another source shows that the performance benefit of 1 OS TTI over
2 OS TTI is only visible for cell center UEs. Two other sources show that in
most scenarios 1 OS TTI is less beneficial than 2 OS TTI. Three of them show
performance gains with 2OS TTI and 3/4OS TTI over other TTI lengths in most
cases.
The additional control overhead for shortened TTI and the additional DMRS
overhead in case of shortened TTI with DMRS based transmission modes that are
more frequent for 1 OS and 2 OS TTI are the limiting factors of very short TTI
length. Three sources highlight that in average less than 2 UEs are scheduled
in the same shortened TTI at low load in their simulations. One of these
sources shows that the required size of the control channel region for
scheduling shortened TTI is in average less than 2 CCEs at low load. Another
of these sources shows that multiplexing more UEs in a shortened TTI, between
2 and 7 UEs depending on the RU, is beneficial as limiting the number of co-
scheduled UEs in a short TTI to one implies performance degradation that
increases with RU, i.e. with increasing number of active UEs at the eNB.
Source 5 shows that shortened TTI gains increase with larger system BW as the
relative control channel overhead for shortened TTI decreases. Two sources
showed benefits of a dynamic control region for short TTI, where resources
occupied by sPDCCH depends on the number of scheduled UEs per sTTI and their
required aggregation level, over a statically reserved control region. Source
8 showed that DMRS optimization is beneficial for 2OS TTI in case of DMRS
based demodulation. The studied DMRS optimization enables to bring the
performance of 2 OS TTI at a higher level than the one of other TTI lengths at
low-medium load.
Four sources evaluated the usage of shortened TTI for obtaining faster update
of CSI measurements. One of the source shows minor performance improvement
with fast CSI. Two of the sources show some benefit of using shortened TTI for
including CSI update, especially at high load and for cell edge UEs. Some
benefit of having fast CSI was observed in the fourth source mostly due to the
effect of a smaller CQI report delay rather than a smaller CQI report period.
Two sources evaluated TTI shortening with fast CSI for different UE speeds.
One of the sources shows that short TTI benefits are higher when UE speed
increases from 3 km/h to 120 km/h. The other source shows moderate impact on
shortened TTI gain when UE speed increases from 3 km/h to 30km/h. Source 10
shows performance improvement with fast CSI, even with the original 14OS TTI
length.
Most sources show that short TTI may have a benefit in terms of reduced
average system resource utilization.
Source 8 shows benefit of shortened TTI with UL FTP traffic at low load.
Largest gains were observed with 2OS TTI and optimization of DMRS overhead
than with 3/4 OS TTI and slot based TTI.
Three sources evaluated fast UL access with shortened TTI and shows that the
performance of short TTI improves with fast UL access. It is observed that
performance difference among various TTI lengths is getting smaller with fast
UL access. However, it should be noted that fast UL access has some drawbacks
regarding the amount of reserved UL resources that was not considered in all
of these studies.
Two sources show that gains of TTI shortening reduce if HARQ RTT and UL access
delay cannot be linearly scaled with TTI length. Source 11 showed that when a
DL HARQ RTT of 14 sTTI and a UL access delay of 14 or 21sTTI is required for
operating 2OS TTI, the performance gain of 2OS TTI over slot based TTI with DL
HARQ RTT of 8 sTTI and UL TCP ACK delay of 12 sTTI is reduced (and can become
negative) assuming a 500kB file size. Two sources show that the performance of
14OS TTI length with reduced processing time (i.e. with reduced HARQ RTT and
UL access delay) comes close to the one of slot based TTI length. However,
source 4 shows that if 14OS TTI follows the same TBS assumption as slot based
TTI length, i.e. 14OS TTI UEs are served with correspondingly decreased coding
rate, gains of 14OS TTI length with reduced processing time are smaller than
the ones of other short TTI lengths. Source 11 showed that more than half of
the short TTI gain comes from processing time reduction, which has benefits in
terms of reduced UL access delay and HARQ RTT. Source 2 shows that slot based
TTI with DL HARQ RTT of 4 sTTI and UL TCP ACK delay of 7 sTTI can achieve
similar or better performance than 2OS TTI and 3/4 OS TTI with DL HARQ RTT of
8 sTTI and UL TCP ACK delay of 13 sTTI. No particular TBS limitation was
assumed by source 2 for slot based TTI and reduced DL HARQ RTT of 4 sTTI.
Source 9 shows that gains of TTI shortening in the evaluated scenario depend
on assumptions regarding how long a TCP connection is maintained, which is TCP
implementation-specific. More specifically, large gains were observed when TCP
slow start is assumed to occur for each file transfer of a UE while smaller
gains were observed otherwise. 0ms core network delay was assumed in source 9.
Furthermore, source 11 shows that gains of TTI shortening in the evaluated
scenario depend on assumptions regarding the setting of the TCP parameter
ssthresh (slow start threshold), which is TCP implementation-specific. More
specifically, when TCP sender sets slow start threshold according to RFC5681,
the gains from TTI shortening are reduced.
Source 5 shows that if additional subframe type (downlink transmission, GP,
uplink transmission in a subframe) is introduced and applied for subframe #1,
#3, #4 and #6, #7, #8, #9 with TDD DL/UL configuration #1 or #2 assuming those
subframes are either MBSFN subframe or uplink subframe or special subframe
with special subframe configuration 8 for legacy UEs, and short TTI with 2 OSs
is used, considerable gains can be achieved if it is assumed that the same
additional subframe type at the same subframe is used for all cells in the
network. Three sources show that in the most favourable situation for TTI
shortening, introducing short TTI in existing TDD UL/DL configuration without
additional subframe type can lead to large user perceived throughput
improvement. Three sources show that in the most favourable situation for TTI
shortening, introducing short TTI with additional subframe type within
existing UL/DL configuration can lead to improved user perceived throughput
compared to introducing short TTI without additional subframe type within
existing UL/DL configurations, especially for short TTI length as 2OS. Two
sources show that introducing short TTI with additional subframe type within
existing UL/DL configuration have marginal user perceived throughput gain
compared to introducing short TTI without additional subframe type within
existing UL/DL configurations for slot based TTI. Source 4 shows that
significant performance loss in 5^th^ percentile user throughput with shorter
TTI length like 2OS both with and without additional subframe type, and
performance gain with shorter TTI decreases with larger file sizes. In all
sources, it is assumed that the same additional subframe type at the same
subframe is used for all cells in the network. At least shown by two sources,
under a given TDD UL/DL subframe configuration, introducing additional
subframe type for a new UE can further reduce the U-plane latency for TDD
compared to the case without introducing additional subframe types in the
evaluated scenarios. The above performance gains of introducing additional
subframe type in terms of user perceived throughput is observed based on the
assumption of no legacy UE exists in the system. The performance of legacy UEs
is degraded with the introduction of additional subframe type. It has not been
evaluated during the SI on how much degradation for legacy UEs.
Performance impact on legacy UEs in a carrier using shorter TTI has not been
evaluated for all considered scenarios.
## 9.5 Findings from link evaluations on TTI reduction and reduced processing
time
In this section the findings from Annex C is outlined for the channels sPDCCH,
sPDSCH, sPUSCH and sPUCCH.
### 9.5.1 sPDSCH
For the CRS based transmission mode, it is shown by two sources that general
trend that the performance in link level throughput decreases with shorter TTI
length and four sources show no performance difference in throughput with
smaller shorter TTI length. Further the BLER performance of short TTI lengths
compared to the one of a subframe long TTI is tolerable.
For DMRS based transmission mode, it is shown by five sources that the
performance in link level throughput generally decreases with short sTTI
operation compared to subframe long TTI. One source however shows the same
link level throughput for short sTTI compared to subframe long TTI. It is
further shown that shorter sTTIs perform better for higher speeds in link
level throughput perspective compared to 7 symbols sTTI using shortened
version of the existing DM-RS pattern for downlink subframes. In case of lower
speeds, wherein 7 symbol long sTTI using a shortened version of the existing
DM-RS pattern results in a higher link level throughput compared shorter sTTI
lengths without DM-RS reduction techniques applied. This is mainly due to the
additional overhead of shorter sTTI lengths. Further two sources evaluated a
TTI length of 2 OFDM symbols where DM-RS is not available in adjacent multiple
scheduled short TTIs and showed the link level throughput is increased
compared to having DM-RS available in every sTTI. This is targeting to reduce
the overhead of DM-RS in case of shorter TTI lengths. Three sources evaluated
increasing the PRB bundling size and showed that it is beneficial. Two source
showed that it is beneficial when designing the DM-RS pattern for shorter TTI
lengths to assume a lower number of DM-RS per PRB compared to the subframe
long TTI. Further one source showed that it is feasible to design a DM-RS
pattern to support 4-layer transmission with a lower number of DM-RS per PRB
compared to the subframe long TTI. Further the BLER performance of short TTI
lengths compared to the one of a subframe long TTI is tolerable. One source
showed that if beamforming is applied the BLER performance becomes better for
DMRS based transmission mode compared to CRS based transmissions mode.
One source studied a TBS selection method to allow transmitting a TB with code
rate larger than 1 in an sTTI. It's shown that the link level throughput can
be increased by this TBS selection method, due to achieved time diversity and
HARQ combining gain. This has an impact on latency that is out of the scope of
the link evaluation.
### 9.5.2 sPDCCH
Link evaluations for sPDCCH operation based on CRS demodulation has been
performed by four sources and showed that BLER performance is tolerable.
Further one source showed evaluation results for DM-RS based demodulation and
showed that depending on the allocation scheme tolerable BLER performance can
be achieved and comparable BLER performance to sPDCCH based on CRS
demodulation. The same source further studied PRB bundling and it was shown
that it is beneficial. Further one source studied different DM-RS pattern. It
is also showed by the same source that DMRS based sPDCCH transmission using
the entire OFDM symbols within a sTTI can obtain better performance compared
to sPDCCH transmission using a part of OFDM symbols within a sTTI. Also,
distributed transmission of sPDCCH shows better performance compared to
localized transmission.
### 9.5.3 sPUSCH
The trend observed is that the performance in link level throughput decreases
with shorter TTI lengths. Two sources evaluated DM-RS multiplexing from
different UEs, with the assumption that the same bandwidth is used for both
UEs. The results show that two or three UEs can be multiplexed. Three sources
evaluated short TTIs of lengths of 2 and 4 OFDM symbols with DM-RS not being
available in multiple adjacent scheduled short TTIs, it is shown that having
DM-RS in every second or third short TTI results significant increase in
throughput. Further one source studied new DM-RS design allowing of mixing
data and DM-RS in the same OFDM symbol, it is shown that design can increase
the link level throughput. Further the BLER performance of short TTI lengths
compared to the one of a subframe long TTI is tolerable. Two sources evaluated
short TTI of length of 4 OFDM symbols with shared DM-RS between two short TTIs
in a slot by the same UE, and it is shown that the BLER performance compared
to the one of a subframe long TTI is tolerable. One source studied a TBS
selection method to allow transmitting a TB with code rate larger than 1 in an
sTTI. It's shown that the link level throughput can be increased by this TBS
selection method, due to achieved time diversity and HARQ combining gain. This
has an impact on latency that is out of the scope of the link evaluation.
### 9.5.4 sPUCCH
All sources with sPUCCH evaluation show that the performance of sPUCCH
degrades generally with shorter TTI length due to the amount of energy
transmitted becoming smaller and smaller. Further the results show that for
HARQ-ACK payload size of 1 to 40 bits frequency hopping is beneficial. Two
sources showed BLER performance for sPUCCH targeting CSI reporting.
Considering both CSI and HARQ-ACK feedback, the following can be observed.
Smaller payload sizes e.g. 1 to 2 bits results in tolerable performance for
the shortest TTI lengths. For larger payload sizes e.g. 5 to 40 bits, can
achieve tolerable performance with a longer sTTI length. Note that there is
some coverage impact with shorter TTI lengths with large payload sizes.
# 10 Conclusion
## 10.1 RAN2 Protocol Evaluations
In protocol evaluations, the potential gains in terms of increased download
throughput and reduction of download time for reduced latency in LTE has been
performed and evaluated.
For TCP, and TCP slow start specifically, results show that reduced UL
latency, shorter RTT and HARQ RTT can have a positive impact on TCP
performance depending on cell load and L1/L2 overhead. This is due to the fact
that the receiver may acknowledge TCP packets faster which enables a faster
increase in the TCP window size. Latency reduction has shown a positive impact
on both TCP congestion avoidance mode and in TCP slow start phase.
As the initial window size for each TCP connection is very small and the
increase is steeper for each size increment, the effect of latency reductions
for both RTT and HARQ RTT are more considerable for the slow start phase. This
impact is large for small file sizes, especially where the slow start period
lasts for the entire duration of the file transfer (how long the phase lasts
depends on TCP congestion control algorithm and parameters). For larger file
sizes, the proportion of the slow start phase of the whole file is smaller if
packet losses can be avoided.
Furthermore, the following high-level observations have been obtained:
For TTI shortening, the potential gain depends on the following aspects:
\- Delays in the core network and Internet also impact the UE perceived
throughput. If these delays dominate over radio network delays, latency
reduction techniques will be less efficient.
\- In high loaded cells, or in situations where the available scheduled Uu
bitrate is low, e.g. due to radio conditions, user data is queued before
transmitting. This has an impact on User Throughput. In these scenarios,
efforts to reduce radio latency will be less important as the limited
availability of UL resources may result in reduced performance as the queuing
delay dominates over the radio delay.
\- By reducing the TTI length, the network can schedule the UE faster, which
reduces the RTT. A reduction in RTT increases the TCP throughput. A reduction
of TTI length may also increase the system capacity for small data
transmission.
\- For file transfers using TCP, the amount of UPT gain provided by shorter
TTI may decrease with larger file size.
\- With reduced TTI length, the processing time may be reduced with a
resulting scaling of the RTT and HARQ RTT. Shortening the TTI gives a larger
latency reduction effect compared to only shortened processing time(s).
\- A reduction of TTI length may require additional L1 overhead e.g. CRC, RS,
DCI, UCI and result in a relative increase of L2 headers. Increased overhead
will to some extent limit the User Throughput gain from TTI reduction.
\- Shorter TTI can enable quicker HARQ and CSI feedback, which may give faster
link adaptation to channel conditions. Gain can be observed for the UE
perceived throughput as well as median delay.
For fast uplink access:
\- An enhancement to SPS to allow for periodic UL grants every TTI (Fast UL)
reduces the latency of the first UL transmission compared to legacy intervals,
and performs equally well compared with SR every 1ms with lower control
channel load. Fast UL improves User Throughput also with shorter TTI, although
the relative gain is smaller compared to longer TTIs.
\- An enhancement of UL grants allowing the UE to skip padding transmissions
in grant if it has no UL data in the UE buffer is beneficial as it may
decrease UL interference and improve UE battery efficiency.
\- The gains of acknowledged activation/deactivation of SPS has not been
established and needs to be discussed further in a work item phase.
**SR based PUSCH transmission and the pre-scheduling scheme allowed by current
specifications could give more predictable delay performance whereas the delay
of contention based PUSCH transmission are sensitive to the collision
probability, which is subject to the number of UEs sharing the same PUSCH
resource (e.g. depends on the cell load) and the UE's traffic arrival
interval. Contention based PUSCH transmission allows more efficient PUSCH
resource utilization compared to the pre-scheduling scheme, but with increased
uplink latency if collision occurs. When the collision probability is low, the
increase in uplink latency is small. In this case the PUSCH resource
utilization is lower than that of the SR based PUSCH transmission because the
contention based PUSCH resources reserved for the UEs may not be used.**
**It would be beneficial if the NB can identify the UE that performed the
PUSCH transmission even when collision happens, e.g. by different DMRS Cyclic
Shift. RAN2 evaluation for contention based PUSCH transmission assumes that
the eNB can always detect the DMRS resources whenever there are transmissions
from UEs, but the actual performance would depend on success rate of DMRS
resource detection, which should be studied by RAN1.**
For handover latency reduction:
\- The following steps contribute to a major portion of total handover delay
and can be addressed for possible latency reduction:
\- RACH procedure including delay to acquire first available PRACH in target
cell, PRACH preamble transmission and UL allocation + TA,
\- UE processing time after RA procedure including decoding of scheduling
grant and timing alignment + L1 encoding of UL data, and transmission of
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_.
\- Two potential solution directions which may be beneficial were identified
during the study. The feasibility of these solutions has not been studied by
other WGs. No further work is expected in this study.
## 10.2 RAN1 Shortened TTI and reduced processing time
In the work link level evaluations, system evaluations and design aspects have
been considered. The main aspect of the study is shortening the TTI length and
reducing the processing time.
The observations from the system level results are given in section 9.4.
The observations from the link level results are given in section 9.5.
In section 8.5 a set of design recommendations are given as output of the
study.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation assumptions
Simulation assumptions for the latency reduction study are provided within
this Annex. The simulation assumption is divided in three parts, i.e. protocol
simulations assumptions, system simulation assumptions and link-level
simulation assumptions.
# A1 Protocol Simulations
For each source for protocol evaluations the corresponding assumptions are
provided within this section.
## A1.1 Simulation 1 [4]
**Average down-link latency calculation**
Following the same approach as in section B.2.1 in 3GPP TR 36.912, the LTE
U-plane one-way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays and 1 TTI duration for transmission, as shown in Figure A.1
below. Assuming the processing times can be scaled by the same factor of TTI
reduction keeping the same number of HARQ processes, the one way latency can
be calculated as
D = 1.5 TTI (eNB processing and scheduling) + 1 TTI (transmission) + 1.5 TTI
(UE processing) + n*8 TTI (HARQ retransmissions)
= (4 + n*8) TTI.
Considering a typical case where there would be 0 or 1 retransmission, and
assuming error probability of the first transmission to be p, the delay is
given by
D = (4 + p*8) TTI.
So, for 0% BLER, D = 4 * TTI,
And for 10% BLER, D = 4.8 * TTI.
Figure A1.1-1: eNB and UE processing delays and HARQ RTT
**Average UE initiated UL transmission latency calculation**
Assume UE is in connected/synchronized mode and wants to do UL transmission,
e.g., to send TCP ACK. Following table shows the steps and their corresponding
contribution to the UL transmission latency. To be consistent in comparison of
DL and UL, we add the eNB processing delay in the UL after the UL data is
received by the eNB (step 7).
Table A1.1-1 UL transmission latency calculation
Step Description Delay
* * *
1\. Average delay to next SR opportunity SR periodicity/2 2\. UE sends SR 1
TTI 3\. eNB decodes SR and generates scheduling grant 3 TTI 4\. Transmission
of scheduling grant (assumed always error free) 1 TTI 5\. UE processing delay
(decoding Scheduling grant + L1 encoding of data) 3 TTI 6\. UE sends UL
transmission (1 + p*8) TTI where p is initial BLER. 7\. eNB receives and
decodes the UL data 1.5 TTI
In the table above, steps 1-4 and half delay of step 5 is assumed to be due to
SR, and rest is assumed for UL data transmission in values shown in Table 4
## A1.2 Simulation 2 [5]
Table A1.2-1: Simulation assumptions on radio aspects
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Parameter | Assumption | | +==============================+==============================+=====+ | Simulation time | 51s(Ftp1), 100s(HTTP) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | System bandwidth | 20 MHz | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Duplex mode | FDD | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cell layout | Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 3 | | | | cells per site, with | | | | wrap-around | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of UEs | 1, 5, 10, 20 per cell | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance | 500m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE speed | 3Km/h | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna configuration | 2 tx , 4 rx (CELL) ; 1 tx, 2 | | | | rx (UE) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern (horizontal) | = 70 degrees, A~m~ = 25 dB | | | | | | | (For 3-sector cell sites | | | | with fixed antenna patterns) | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern (vertical) | = 10, SLA~v~ = 20 dB | | | | | | | (For 3-sector cell sites | The parameter is the | | | with fixed antenna patterns) | electrical antenna downtilt. | | | | The value for this | | | | parameter, as well as for a | | | | potential additional | | | | mechanical tilt, is not | | | | specified here, but may be | | | | set to fit other RRM | | | | techniques used. For | | | | calibration purposes, the | | | | values = 15 degrees for 3GPP | | | | case 1 and = 6 degrees for | | | | 3GPP case 3 may be used. | | | | Antenna height at the base | | | | station is set to 32m. | | | | Antenna height at the UE is | | | | set to 1.5m. | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Combining method in 3D | | | | antenna pattern | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Total BS TX power (Ptotal) | 46 dBm -- 20MHz carrier | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE power class | 23dBm (200mW)\ | | | | This corresponds to the sum | | | | of PA powers in multiple Tx | | | | antenna case | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Channel model | Large Fading channel model | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Distance-dependent pathloss | L=128.1+37.6log10(R) (R in | | | | km) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal shadowing model | Reference to B1.4.1.4 in | | | | UMTS TR30.03 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal shadowing standard | 8dB | | | deviation | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Correlation distance of | 50 ms | | | shadowing | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between sites | 0.5 | | | | | | | | 1 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between cells | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Penetration loss | 20dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | CQI measurement period | 5 ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | SRS reporting period | 5 ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of RLC ARQ max | 16 | | | transmit | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Number of MAC HARQ max | 3 | | | transmit | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | TP layer | TCP | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | CN Delay | 0ms (assuming eNB and APP | | | | server are co-located) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BSR Period | 5ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | SR Period | 1ms | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
Table A1.2-2: TCP parameters [3]
Parameter Assumption
* * *
TCP ACK Delay 0ms Initial TCP Window 1460 Bytes Initial Ssthresh 65535Bytes
Ssthresh 65536 Bytes TCP Connection Number 1(FTP1), 5(HTTP)
Table A1.2-3: FTP traffic model [3]
Parameter Assumption
* * *
FTP Model Model 1 Packet Size 0.5Mbytes User arrival rate λ Poisson
distributed with arrival rate λ, λ = 0.2
Table A1.2-4: HTTP traffic model [4]
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Component | Distribution | Parameters | PDF | +================+================+================+================+ | Main object | Truncated | Mean = 10710 | $$f_{x} = | | size (SM) | Lognormal | Bytes | \frac{1}{\sqrt | | | | | {2\pi}\text{δx | | | | SD = 25032 | }}\exp\left\lb | | | | Bytes | rack \frac{- ( | | | | | {lnx - \mu)}^{ | | | | Min = 100 | 2}}{2\delta^{2 | | | | Bytes | }} \right\rbra | | | | | ck,x \geq 0,$$ | | | | Max = 2 MBytes | | | | | | $$\delta = 1.3 | | | | | 7,\mu = 8.37$$ | | | | | | | | | | if x > max or | | | | | x \ max or | | | | | x \ max, | | | | | discard and | | | | | regenerate a | | | | | new value for | | | | | x. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reading time | Exponential | Mean = 30 sec | $$ | | | | | f_{x} = \lambd | | | | | a e^{- \lambda | | | | | x},x \geq 0$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$\la | | | | | mbda = 0.033$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parsing time | Exponential | Mean = 0.13sec | $$ | | | | | f_{x} = \lambd | | | | | a e^{- \lambda | | | | | x},x \geq 0$$ | | | | | | | | | | $$\l | | | | | ambda = 7.69$$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## A1.3 Simulation 4 [6]
For one symbol length TTI, we assume new PDCCH will be used for data
scheduling. Although the legacy PDCCH is not needed anymore, we keep one
symbol length legacy PDCCH region for CSS.
As we evaluated in system simulation for 3GPP Case 1, the average PDCCH
Aggregation Level is 1.42. Therefore, we assume that the average PDCCH payload
for each UE is 52 REs.
Table A1.3-1: L1 overhead analysis (CRS based DL channel estimation)
TTI length 1ms 1 symbol
* * *
Number of legacy UEs (not capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms
20 0 Number of new UEs (capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms 0
20 Number of CRS port 2  
Number of DMRS port 0  
System Bandwidth (MHz) 20  
Average PDCCH payload for each UE (number of RE) 52  
CRS overhead in non-PDCCH region (number of RE/PRB/ms) 12  
Legacy PDCCH overhead for legacy UE scheduling (number of RE/ms) 1040 0 Total
legacy PDCCH overhead (number of RE/ms) 2400 (2 symbols) 1200 (1 symbol) New
PDCCH overhead for new UE scheduling (number of RE/ms) 0 1040 Total PDCCH
overhead (number of RE/ms) 2400 2240 CRS overhead (number of RE/ms) 1200 1200
Total overhead (number of RE/ms) 3600 3440 Overhead ratio 21.43% 20.48%
Normalized L1 data rate (compared to 1ms TTI) 100% 101.21%
Table A1.3-2: L1 overhead analysis (DM-RS based DL channel estimation)
TTI length 1ms 1 symbol
* * *
Number of legacy UEs (not capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms
20 0 Number of new UEs (capable of one symbol length TTI) scheduled per ms 0
20 Number of CRS port 1  
Number of DMRS port 2  
System Bandwidth (MHz) 20  
Average PDCCH payload for each UE (number of RE) 52  
CRS overhead in non-PDCCH region (number of RE/PRB/ms) 6  
DMRS overhead (number of RE/PRB/TTI) 12 4 Legacy PDCCH overhead for legacy UE
scheduling (number of RE/ms) 1040 0 Total legacy PDCCH overhead (number of
RE/ms) 2400 (2 symbols) 1200 (1 symbol) New PDCCH overhead for new UE
scheduling (number of RE/ms) 0 1040 Total PDCCH overhead (number of RE/ms)
2400 2240 CRS overhead (number of RE/ms) 600 600 DMRS overhead (number of
RE/ms) 1200 5200 Total overhead (number of RE/ms) 4200 8040 Overhead ratio
25.00% 47.86% Normalized L1 data rate (compared to 1ms TTI) 100% 69.52%
## A1.4 Simulation 9 [6]
**Downlink**
It has been understood by RAN2 that processing delays in the different nodes
form the major part of the delay in obtaining valid scheduling assignment, and
reducing such processing delay could improve the latency compared to LTE Rel-8
[TR 36.912]. Following the same approach as in section B.2.1 in [TR 36.912],
the LTE U-plane one-way latency for a scheduled UE consists of the fixed node
processing delays and 1TTI duration for transmission, as shown in Figure B.1
below. Let us denote total processing time for eNB from UL reception to DL
transmission (in ms) by ∆~eNB~ and total processing time for UE from DL
reception to UL transmission (in ms) by ∆~UE~. The fraction of these
processing times needed for processing the reception and preparing the
transmission are denoted by w, x, y and z where w + x =1 and y + z = 1.
Figure A1.4-1: eNB and UE processing delays and HARQ RTT
The one way latency can be calculated as
D = y.∆~eNB~ + 1 TTI + w.∆~UE~ + n* (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI), where n is the
number of HARQ retransmissions.
Considering a typical case where there would be 0 or 1 retransmission,
assuming error probability of the first transmission to be p, and w = x = y =
z = 1/2, the delay is given by
D = (1/2 + p) * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI).
So, for 0% BLER, D = 0.5 * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI), and for 10% BLER, D = 0.6
* (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI).
**UE initiated UL transmission**
Assume UE is in connected/synchronized mode and wants to do UL transmission,
e.g., to send TCP ACK. Following table shows the steps and their corresponding
contribution to the UL transmission latency.
Table A1.4-1: UL transmission latency calculation
Step Description Delay
* * *
1\. Average delay to next SR opportunity SR periodicity/2 2\. UE sends SR 1
TTI 3\. eNB decodes SR and generates scheduling grant ∆~eNB~ 4\. Transmission
of scheduling grant (assumed always error free) 1 TTI 5\. UE processing delay
(decoding Scheduling grant + L1 encoding of data) ∆~UE~ 6\. UE sends UL
transmission 1TTI + p * (∆~eNB~ + ∆~UE~ + 2TTI) where p is initial BLER. 7\.
eNB receives and decodes the UL data z.∆~eNB~
In the table above, steps 1-4 and half delay of step 5 is assumed to be due to
SR, and rest is assumed for UL data transmission in values shown in Table
9.1.9-3.
## A1.5 Simulation 5 [6]
**Baseline L1 overhead calculation**
We assume 20% L1 overhead for baseline case, which is calculated as following:
\- TTI = 14 OFDM symbol
\- Control overhead: 2 PDCCH OFDM symbols (24 REs)
\- RS Overhead: 2 CRS antenna ports (additional 12 REs)
Total number of REs per PRB: 14*12 = 168
Overhead: 36/168 ≈ 21%
**TBS calculation**
L1 overhead (i.e. L1 control channel and RS) is considered as 10%, 20%, 30%
and 50%, which is reflected into the TBS calculation. To unify the TBS
calculation, we also use the same TBS calculation for the base line case (i.e.
1ms TTI), and the 20% L1 overhead is assumed.
TBS is calculated by following formula based on efficiency in table below
(R1-081638).
TBS = PRB_Num * RE_per_PRB * efficiency * L1_Overhead
Where,
\- PRB_Num is available PRB number we set in simulation;
\- RE_per_PRB is the total RE number in a PRB, e.g., for 14 OFDM Symbol TTI,
RE_per_PRB is 12*14 = 168, and for 7 OFDM symbol TTI, RE_per_PRB is 12*7 = 84;
\- Efficiency is for calculating the TBS table in TS 36.213, and efficiency =
code rate * modulation level;
\- L1_Overhead denotes the L1 signaling and RS overhead.
NOTE: CRC impact not considered.
MCS Index modulation coding rate x 1024 efficiency Comments Code Rate
* * *
0 2 120 0.2344 from CQI table 0.1171875 1 2 157 0.3057 Average Efficiency
0.15332031 2 2 193 0.377 from CQI table 0.18847656 3 2 251 0.4893 Average
Efficiency 0.24511719 4 2 308 0.6016 from CQI table 0.30078125 5 2 379 0.7393
Average Efficiency 0.37011719 6 2 449 0.877 from CQI table 0.43847656 7 2 526
1.0264 Average Efficiency 0.51367188 8 2 602 1.1758 from CQI table 0.58789063
9 2 679 1.3262 Average Efficiency 0.66308594 10 4 340 1.3262 overlap
0.33203125 11 4 378 1.4766 from CQI table 0.36914063 12 4 434 1.69535 Average
Efficiency 0.42382813 13 4 490 1.9141 from CQI table 0.47851563 14 4 553
2.1602 Average Efficiency 0.54003906 15 4 616 2.4063 from CQI table 0.6015625
16 4 658 2.5684 Average Efficiency 0.64257813 17 6 438 2.5684 overlap
0.42773438 18 6 466 2.7305 from CQI table 0.45507813 19 6 517 3.0264 Average
Efficiency 0.50488281 20 6 567 3.3223 from CQI table 0.55371094 21 6 616
3.6123 Average Efficiency 0.6015625 22 6 666 3.9023 from CQI table 0.65039063
23 6 719 4.21285 Average Efficiency 0.70214844 24 6 772 4.5234 from CQI table
0.75390625 25 6 822 4.8193 Average Efficiency 0.80273438 26 6 873 5.1152 from
CQI table 0.85253906 27 6 910 5.33495 Average Efficiency 0.88867188 28 6 948
5.5547 from CQI table 0.92578125
**UL latency components**
Normally, we assume that the UL access latency is stated in following tables:
Normal D-SR UL Latency component
Component Description Time
* * *
1 Average waiting time for PUCCH (5 TTI SR period) 2.5 * TTI 2 UE sends
Scheduling Request (SR) on PUCCH 1 * TTI 3 eNB decodes Scheduling Request and
generates the Scheduling Grant 3 * TTI 4 Transmission of Scheduling Grant 1 *
TTI 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of grant + L1 encoding of UL data) 3 * TTI
6 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 7 Data decoding and processing in eNodeB 3 *
TTI 8 Backhaul(CN/Internet) transmission (to App server) 5ms Total 14.5TTI+5ms
Short D-SR UL Latency component
Component Description Time
* * *
1 Average waiting time for PUCCH (1 TTI SR period) 0.5 * TTI 2 UE sends
Scheduling Request (SR) on PUCCH 1 * TTI 3 eNB decodes Scheduling Request and
generates the Scheduling Grant 3 * TTI 4 Transmission of Scheduling Grant 1 *
TTI 5 UE Processing Delay (decoding of grant + L1 encoding of UL data) 3 * TTI
6 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 7 Data decoding and processing in eNodeB 3 *
TTI 8 Backhaul(CN/Internet) transmission (to App server) 5ms Total 12.5TTI+5ms
Pre-allocation UL Latency component
Component Description Time
* * *
1 Average waiting time for PDCCH 0.5 * TTI 2 UE reads Resource Blocks on PDCCH
1 * TTI 3 UE Processing Delay (decoding of grant + L1 encoding of UL data) 3 *
TTI 4 Transmission of UL data 1 * TTI 5 Data decoding and processing in eNodeB
3 * TTI 6 Backhaul(CN/Internet) transmission (to App server) 5ms Total
8.5TTI+5ms
## A1.6 Simulation 11 [9]
The UL transmission latency and the HARQ RTT are based on the assumptions
given in A1.1.
Table A1.6-1 Simulation assumptions
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +============================+========================================+ | Simulation time | 20s(Ftp model 2) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | TTI duration | 1, 2, 7 OFDM symbol; 1ms (legacy | | | baseline) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | System bandwidth | 10 MHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Duplex mode | FDD | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Cell layout | Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 3 cells per | | | site | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | Random distribution; average number of | | | UE per cell: 2 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500m | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | HARQ RTT | 8TTI | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | L1 overhead | For 1, 2, 7 OFDM symbol: 5%, 10%, 20%, | | | 30%, 50% | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE mobility | 0 Km/h | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Reserved OFDM symbol | 0, 1 for legacy PDCCH | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | One-way CN Delay | 1ms | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Target BLER | 10% | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Downlink scheduler | Proportional fair in time and | | | frequency | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | 2 tx , 2 rx (CELL) ; 1 tx, 1 rx (UE) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Maximum Tx Power of eNodeB | 46 dBm | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | UE power class | 23dBm (200mW) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Channel model | Large Fading channel model | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | TCP parameters | Initial TCP window: 1460 | | | | | | MSS: 1460 | | | | | | Ssthresh: 65535 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
+----------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | FTP traffic model | FTP Traffic Model 2 | | | | | | File size: 0.5 Mbytes | | | | | | Reading Time: Exponential Distribution, Mean = 1s | +======================+===================================================+ | Overheads of headers | **TCP header: 20 bytes** | | | | | | **IP header: 20 bytes** | | | | | | **PDCP header: 2 bytes** | | | | | | **TCP+IP header overheads after RoHC: 8 bytes** | | | | | | **RLC header: 2 bytes** | | | | | | **MAC header: 2 bytes** | +----------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
**TBS calculation assumption**
The TBS (Transport Block Size) of each short TTI PDSCH is calculated as
follows:
$$\mathbf{\text{TBS}}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}} =
\mathbf{\text{TBS}}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}} \times
\frac{\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}}}{\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}}
\times \frac{\mathbf{1} - \mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{short}}}}{\mathbf{1} -
\mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}}$$
TBS~short~: The TBS of short TTI PDSCH
TBS~legacy~: The TBS of legacy PDSCH which uses the same MCS and PRB(s) as the
short TTI PDSCH.
N~short~: The number of REs in short TTI PDSCH per PRB
N~legacy~: The number of REs in legacy PDSCH per PRB
L~short~: The loss rate of PHY layer within the short TTI PDSCH due to the REs
not used for data transmission
L~legacy~: The loss rate of PHY layer within the legacy PDSCH due to the REs
not used for data transmission
**Resource mapping of short TTI**
In Figure A1.6-1 the resource map above is the legacy resource mapping per PRB
in one subframe, considering 2 Antenna ports and 2 OFDM symbols control field.
In Figure A1.6-1 the resource map below is the short TTI resource mapping,
considering 2 OFDM symbols used for the control field in order to ensure the
backward compatibility. The loss rates (L~legacy~, e.g. 5% - 50%) of the PHY
layer in short TTI duration are assumed.
{width="6.123611111111111in" height="6.427083333333333in"}
Figure A1.6-1: resource mapping per PRB in one subframe
**TBS Calculation of short TTI**
According to the resource mapping and the TBS calculation formula given above,
the loss rate of PHY layer for legacy PDSCH is calculated as follows:
$$\mathbf{L}_{\mathbf{\text{legacy}}}\ = \frac{\mathbf{\text{the}}\
\mathbf{\text{number}}\ \mathbf{\text{of}}\ \mathbf{\text{reference}}\
\mathbf{\text{symbols}}\ \mathbf{\text{within}}\ \mathbf{\text{PDSCH}}}{\
\mathbf{\text{the}}\ \mathbf{\text{number}}\ \mathbf{\text{of}}\
\mathbf{\text{REs}}\ \mathbf{\text{within}}\ \mathbf{\text{PDSCH}}} = \
\frac{\mathbf{12}}{\mathbf{144}} = \ \mathbf{8}.\mathbf{3}\%$$
For different short TTI duration, The TBS of short TTI PDSCH is calculated as
the following table:
Table A.1.6-2: TBS calculation for different TTI duration
TTI Duration TBS of short TTI PDSCH (TBS~short~)
* * *
7 OFDM symbol $$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times
\frac{60}{144} \times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{84}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$ 2 OFDM symbol
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{24}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$ 1 OFDM symbol
$$\text{TBS}_{\text{short}} = \text{TBS}_{\text{legacy}} \times \frac{12}{144}
\times \frac{1 - L_{\text{short}}}{1 - 8.3\%}$$
## A1.7 Simulation on contention based PUSCH transmission
The common evaluation assumptions are given in Table A1.7-1 below.
Table A1.7-1: Common evaluation assumptions
Parameter Assumption
* * *
System bandwidth 20 MHz Duplex mode FDD Carrier frequency 2GHz Cell layout
Hexagonal grid, 7 sites, 21 cells per site, with wrap-around Inter-site
distance 500m UE speed 3 km/h, quasi-static model Antenna configuration 1x2
MRC eNB TX power 46 dBm UE Tx power 23dBm Channel model Typical Urban Pathloss
model 25.814 Lognormal shadowing, std. dev. 8dB Penetration loss 20dB HARQ RTT
8ms SR Period 5 ms DRX OFF Maximum number of scheduled users per TTI 10 L1
overhead 20% TTI Length 14 symbols
The dedicated evaluation assumptions for scenario with only CB PUSCH users are
given in Table A1.7-2 below.
Table A1.7-2: Evaluation assumptions for only CB PUSCH users
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +========================+============================================+ | Number of UEs | 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 per cell (per CB PUSCH | | | group) | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | FTP packet size | 100 bytes | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Packet arrival rate λ | FTP model 3 with packet arrival according | | | to Poisson process | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Core network delay | 0ms | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | UL Load per macro cell | Packet arrival rate: 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30% | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Delays: CB PUSCH model | Grant reception: 1ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | eNB processing delay: 3ms | | | | | | Retransmission delay: 8 ms | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | CB PUSCH capacity | Number of groups: 1 | | | | | | Number of RBs per group: 10 | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs per group: 2, 3, 4, | | | 5, 6 | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
The dedicated evaluation assumptions for scenario with CB PUSCH and
dynamically scheduled users are given in Table A1.7-3 below.
Table A1.7-3: Evaluation assumptions for CB PUSCH and dynamically scheduled
users
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +=================================+===================================+ | Number of UEs | According to offered load | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | SR to grant | 4ms -- scaled down with shorter | | | TTI | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Initial TCP Window | 3 x 1500 Bytes (MSS), RFC 5681, | | | section 3.1 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Initial Ssthresh | 45 x 1500 Bytes (MSS) | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Ssthresh | Dynamic according to RFC 5681, | | | sections 3.1 and 3.2 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | FTP file size | 0.5 MB | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | User arrival rate λ | FTP model 1 with UE arrival | | | according to Poisson process | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Core network delay | 2ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | DL Load per macro cell | 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 Mbps | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | UL Load per macro cell | TCP acks for the DL traffic above | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | TD: PF, FD: PF | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Delays: SR based UL grant model | SR to grant reception: 4ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | Average waiting time for SR: 2.5 | | | ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Delays: CB PUSCH model | Grant reception: 1ms | | | | | | UE processing delay: 3 ms | | | | | | Retransmission delay: 8 ms | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | CB PUSCH capacity | Number of groups: 1, 2, 3, 4 | | | | | | Number of RBs per group: 20 | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs per group: | | | 4 | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
# A2 System simulation assumptions for reduced TTI and processing delay
Table A2-1: System simulation assumptions for reduced TTI and processing delay
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumptions | +==================================+==================================+ | Layout | Both 7 and 19 Macro eNBs can be | | | used, 3 sectors per site; | | | | | | Small cell scenario 2a as | | | optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | System bandwidth per carrier | 10MHz/20MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total BS TX power (Ptotal per | 46dBm | | carrier) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TTI length | 1/2/3/4/7 symbols; other TTI | | | lengths provided by companies | | | | | | Note that variable symbols and | | | other numbers are not precluded | | | | | | Baseline: Fixed TTI length(s) | | | across the legacy TTIs is | | | assumed for 1 UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast UL Access schemes | Optional: provided by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RS and control signaling | Details of RS and control | | overhead | signaling overhead provided by | | | companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TBS determination | Scalable with TTI length as | | | baseline | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ RTT | Scalable with TTI length as | | | baseline; HARQ RTT not scaled | | | with TTI provided by individual | | | company | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | Proportional fairness | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Distance-dependent path loss | ITU UMa[referring to Table | | | B.1.2.1-1 in TR36.814], with 3D | | | distance between an eNB and a UE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration | For outdoor UEs:0dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | For indoor UEs: 20dB+0.5din | | | (din: independent uniform random | | | value between [ 0, min(25,d) ] | | | for each link) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing | ITU UMa according to Table A.1-1 | | | of 36.819 with 3D distance for | | | shadowing correlation distance | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna pattern | 3D, referring to TR36.819 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna Height: | 25m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna Height | 1.5m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain + connector loss | 17 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast fading channel between eNB | ITU UMa according to Table A.1-1 | | and UE | of 36.819 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | (mandatory) 2Tx(eNB), (optional) | | | 8Tx(eNB), Cross-polarized | | | | | | 2Rx(UE), Cross-polarized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs | 10 UEs per macro cell | | | | | | Mixture of latency reduction | | | capable UEs and legacy UEs is | | | not precluded (Companies should | | | provide details on how these UEs | | | are handled in the simulations) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE dropping | Randomly and uniformly dropped | | | throughout the macro | | | geographical area. 20% UEs are | | | outdoor and 80% UEs are indoor. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | FTP model 2 or 3 | | | | | | File size [100kbits, 100kB, | | | 500kB, 1 MB] | | | | | | RU [20%, 40% 60%] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI report period | 5, 10 TTIs and milliseconds | | | between two consecutive reports | | | | | | Note: Companies should provide | | | details of CSI measurement | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CSI report delay | 6 TTIs and milliseconds | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TCP models | TCP Reno model (RFC 2581)\ | | | - SSThresh 65535 Bytes\ | | | - Initial window size 1460 | | | Bytes\ | | | - Max segment size 1460 Bytes | | | | | | 40 Bytes TCP header are added to | | | the initial window size and max | | | segment size | | | | | | The three way handshake is not | | | modeled as baseline. | | | | | | TCP ACK feedback modeling is | | | provided by the companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver | MMSE-IRC; other UE receiver | | | provided by companies | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | eNB noise figure | 5dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL antenna configuration | (mandatory) 2Rx(eNB), (optional) | | | 8Rx(eNB), 1Tx(UE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h, 60km/h, 120km/h | | | (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Duplex mode | FDD and TDD | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Network synchronization | Synchronized | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Core, transport and internet | 0ms, 6ms, 10ms | | network delay | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Performance metrics | Mean, 5%, 50% and 95% user | | | perceived throughput\ | | | Mean, 5%, 50% and 95% user | | | packet delay | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
\- User perceived throughput (UPT) is the average of all its file throughputs
\- File throughput = file size/time needed to download the file
\- Time needed to download the file starts when the packet is generated, and
ends when the last bit of the packet is correctly delivered to the receiver,
the network delay (core, transport and internet network delay) is included
here
\- User packet delay is the average of all its file delays
\- File delay is the time needed to download the file as described above
\- Unfinished files are not incorporated in the UPT and user packet delay
calculation.
\- MBSFN subframe configuration can be considered.
## A2.1 Evaluation assumption for TDD
\- Evaluation/analysis assumes the following deployment scenarios for TDD
\- Case 1: Single operator owns the entire band
\- The operator can align or change the DL/UL configuration including
additional subframe type (if introduced)
\- Case 2: Different operator sharing one band can coordinate
\- The operators align the DL/UL configuration including additional subframe
type (if introduced)
\- For the evaluation, backward compatibility shall be maintained
\- RAN1 would not evaluate other deployment scenarios requiring inter-operator
coexistence analysis in this SI
\- Both single carrier and multi carrier cases are considered for deployment
scenarios
\- For SLS/analysis of latency reduction for TDD
\- At least provide single carrier results
\- Legacy TDD DL/UL configuration #0,#1, and #2 can be evaluated.
\- The sets of "fixed" DL and UL subframes are assumed
\- Subframe #0 and #5 are assumed as normal fixed downlink subframe
\- Subframe #2 is assumed as uplink subframe
\- It is not precluded to further consider possibility to apply additional
subframe types in subframes #0 and/or #5 and/or #2, provided that backward
compatible is maintained including reception of CRS, system information,
paging, and SS
\- For additional subframe type (for evaluation purpose)
\- Additional subframe consists of downink(s), GP(s) and uplink(s)
\- In uplink, it is assumed that sPUCCH(s) and sPUSCH(s) can be transmitted
\- Evaluation sets include at least the followings
\- Reference set: Legacy TDD DL/UL configuration with legacy TTI
\- Set 1: full flexibility on other subframes
\- All downlink subframes which can be configured as MBSFN subframes can be
replaced with additional subframe type(s)
\- All uplink subframes can be replaced with additional subframe type(s)
\- Special subframe can be replaced with additional subframe type(s)
\- Set 2: full flexibility only on UL subframes
\- All downlink subframes are fixed as downlink subframes
\- Special subframes are fixed as special subframes
\- All uplink subframes can be replaced with additional subframe type(s)
\- Set 3: keep legacy TDD DL/UL configuration
\- All downlink subframes are fixed as downlink subframes
\- All uplink subframes are fixed as uplink subframes
\- Special subframes are fixed as special subframes
\- Simulation results is recommended to include at least
\- Performance comparison of Set 3 compared to reference set
\- Performance comparison of other sets compared to Set 3
\- Comparison among different TTI lengths within the same set to evaluate the
gain from TTI shortening.
\- For set 1 and set 2 evaluations, consider at least one of the following
cases for co-channel coexistence analysis
\- Option 1: TDD DL/UL configuration including additional subframe type (if
supported) are aligned among neighbor cells in the same frequency
\- Assume macro cell scenario as a baseline
\- Encouraged to simulate also on eIMTA pico cell scenario #3 (only deployment
scenario aspects) in [19]
\- Option 2: TDD DL/UL configuration including additional subframe type (if
supported) may not be aligned among neighbor cells
\- Utilize eIMTA pico cell scenario #3 (only deployment scenario aspects) in
[19] for coexistence evaluation for this case
# A3 Link level simulation assumptions
Table A3-1: PDSCH link-level simulation assumptions
* * *
Parameter Value
* * *
Carrier frequency 2 GHz
System bandwidth 10 MHz/20MHz
TTI length 1/2/3/4/7 symbols; other TTI lengths provided by companies
Allocated bandwidth 25 PRBs, 50 PRBs
Channel model EPA, EVA or ETU
UE speed 3km/h, 60km/h, 120km/h(optional)
Antenna configuration 2Tx(eNB), 2Rx(UE), 8Tx(eNB) optional
Antenna correlation Uncorrelated
Legacy PDCCH region 2 OFDM symbols
CP length Normal
Transmission mode TM4, TM9
RS configuration TM4: 2 CRS ports;\ TM9: 2 CRS ports, legacy DMRS pattern for
7 symbols; Detailed DMRS pattern provided by companies for 1/2/3/4 symbols
Receiver type MMSE; other UE receiver provided by companies
Channel estimation Practical
Rank adaptation Fixed Rank
Link adaptation Disabled
Modulation and code rate 64QAM 5/6, 16QAM 3/4, QPSK 1/3; others provided by
companies
Precoding codebook Fixed
TBS determination Scale TBS size with TTI length
HARQ retransmission Disabled (mandatory), Enabled (optional)
Performance metrics BLER, MSE of channel estimation (optional)
* * *
Table A3-2: PUSCH link-level simulation assumptions
Parameter Value
* * *
Carrier frequency 2 GHz System bandwidth 10 MHz/20MHz TTI length 1/2/3/4/7
symbols; other TTI lengths provided by companies Allocated bandwidth 25 PRBs,
50 PRBs Channel model EPA, EVA or ETU UE speed 3km/h, 60km/h,
120km/h(optional) Antenna configuration 1Tx(UE), 2Rx(eNB), 8Rx(eNB) as
optional CP length Normal Transmission mode TM1 DMRS configuration Detailed
DMRS pattern provided by companies Receiver type MMSE; other UE receiver
provided by companies Channel estimation Practical Link adaptation Disabled
Modulation and code rate 64QAM 5/6, 16QAM 3/4, QPSK 1/3; others provided by
companies TBS determination Scale TBS size with TTI length HARQ retransmission
Disabled (mandatory), Enabled (optional) Performance metrics BLER, MSE of
channel estimation (optional) Fast UL Access schemes Optional: provided by
companies
Table A3-3: (E)PDCCH link-level simulation assumptions
Parameter Value
* * *
Carrier frequency 2 GHz System bandwidth 10 MHz/20MHz TTI length 1/2/3/4/7
symbols; other TTI lengths provided by companies Channel model EPA, EVA or ETU
UE speed 3km/h, 60 km/h, 120km/h (optional) Antenna configuration 2Tx(eNB),
2Rx(UE) Payload size 40bits, 70bits as starting point including CRC; others
provided by companies CP length Normal Shortened (E)PDCCH design Details
provided by companies Receiver type MMSE; other UE receiver provided by
companies Channel estimation Practical Performance metrics BLER, MSE of
channel estimation (optional)
Table A3-1: PUCCH link-level simulation assumptions
Parameter Value
* * *
Carrier frequency 2 GHz System bandwidth 10 MHz/20MHz TTI length 1/2/3/4/7
symbols; other TTI lengths provided by companies Channel model EPA, EVA or ETU
UE speed 3km/h, 60km/h, 120 km/h (optional) Antenna configuration 1Tx(UE),
2Rx(eNB), 8Rx (eNB) (optional) CP length Normal Shortened PUCCH design Details
provided by companies Receiver type MMSE; others provided by companies Channel
estimation Practical Performance metrics For HARQ-ACK: ACK missed detection
probability (1%), NACK-to-ACK error probability (0.1%); DTX-to-ACK probability
1%; For CQI: Probability of CQI block error ≤ 1%; MSE of channel estimation
(optional)
###### ### Annex B: System evaluation results
See separate word file
###### ### Annex C: Link-level evaluation results
See separate word file
#