# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of the study item on Network
Assistance for Network Synchronization in LTE in RP-151084 [2]. It identifies
the existing LTE functions that may need network based synchronization and
their synchronization-related requirements, and reviews and compares
techniques for enhancement of RAN functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] RP-151084, "Study on Network Assistance for Network Synchronization in
LTE".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: "Requirements for support of radio resource management".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: "User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception".
[5] R3-162020, "Reply LS on Network Assistance for Network Synchronization in
LTE (To: RAN3, RAN, cc: RAN4)".
[6] R3-163060, "LS response on Network Assistance for Network Synchronization
in LTE (To: 3GPP TSG RAN, 3GPP RAN3, CC: 3GPP RAN1)".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
# 4 General
The aim of the study is as captured in the SI description document [2]:
\- Study the possible radio network based methods to provide a low cost way
for the operators to synchronize their LTE networks where the current
synchronization mechanism(s) does not work.
\- Avoid duplication of functionalities with respect to specified functions,
in order to maintain costs and complexity to the minimum.
The solutions without UE impacts should be taken into account to provide a
synchronisation accuracy comparable with existing solutions and meet current
requirements.
## 4.1 Objective
It is expected that the candidate network based synchronization solutions
should be able to meet the following conditions:
\- implement with low complexity to help reduce the cost;
\- meet the current synchronization requirement for features;
\- provide added value with respect to existing solutions;
\- without UE impact.
# 5 Requirements and Solutions
## 5.1 Existing requirements
According to TS 36.133 [3], the basic requirement for synchronisation between
any pair of cells on the same frequency that have overlapping coverage areas
in LTE TDD network is 3 μs (phase deviation between two neighbour cells). The
synchronization accuracy is measured at the BS antenna connector. For macro
eNBs ("wide area BS"), the requirement of 3 µs applies only if the cell radius
\ >Stratum | M | | INTEGER | | | > Level | | | (0..3, ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Sync | M | | E | | | hronization | | | NUMERATED(S | | | > status | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | As | | | | | | ynchronous, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Muting | O | | ENUMERATED | Indicates | | > A | | | (Available, | a | | vailability | | | U | vailability | | > | | | navailable, | of muting | | Indication | | | ...) | activation. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | __T | O | * | | Indicates a | | ransmission | | 1..\ * | | ransmission | | In | | | | points | | formation** | | | | locations | | | | | | and the | | | | | | cells | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to each | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Latitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Longitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | M | | BIT STRING | | | >Altitude | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >E-CGI | O | _1..\ List | | oofECGIs>_ | | cells | | | | | | served by | | | | | | the | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | point | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | >>E-CGI | M | | ECGI | E-CGI of | | | | | | cell | | | | | 9.2.14 | included in | | | | | | the list | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
It should be noted that in order to minimise the number of cells and location
information reported by the synchronisation source eNB, the solution can be
enhanced with an indication from the synchronisation target eNB specifying the
cells for which location information is needed. This may be based on the cells
detected by synchronisation target with strongest signal strength.
Location information can be provided in a way already used in TS36.331 for the
_LocationInfo_ IE expressing UE location information. Namely, the location
information for the transmission point could be expressed as the _Ellipsoid
Point With Altitude_ specified in TS36.355 as follows
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
_EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_
The IE _EllipsoidPointWithAltitude_ is used to describe a geographic shape as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [15].
\-- ASN1START
EllipsoidPointWithAltitude ::= SEQUENCE {
latitudeSign ENUMERATED {north, south},
degreesLatitude INTEGER (0..8388607), -- 23 bit field
degreesLongitude INTEGER (-8388608..8388607), -- 24 bit field
altitudeDirection ENUMERATED {height, depth},
altitude INTEGER (0..32767) -- 15 bit field
}
\-- ASN1STOP
_\-------------------------------------------------------_
The descriptions of how latitude, longitude and altitude are encoded in the
_Ellipsoid Point With Altitude_ can be found in TS23.032 section 6.1 and 6.3.
The main advantage of this mechanism to transfer location information to the
synchronisation target eNB is to keep the transmission point location
information part of the RIBS signalling. The receiving eNB can therefore
exchange all the signalling needed to enable RIBS via a single procedure and
over a single interface. The signalling procedures are shown in Figure
5.3.4-1.
Figure 5.3.4-1: Procedure description for propagation delay compensation in
RIBS
The solution allows for compensation of propagation delay over single hops and
over multiple synchronisation hops for RIBS.
Another approach to achieve the enhancements delivered by Solution 4 is to
enable the signalling for the enhanced RIBS function described in Figure
5.3.4-1 over the X2 interface.
In this alternative the synchronisation target eNB1 of Figure 5.3.4-1 sends a
request over the X2 interface to synchronisation source eNB2 and eNB3 asking
to receive Time Synchronisation Info. The location information may have been
previously provided during X2 Setup, or it is sent in the same message as the
Time Synchronisation Info as explained in the main description of solution 4
in which case the target eNB1 may specify a list of cells for which the
location information is needed, e.g. based on the detected cell signal
strength.
Source synchronisation eNB2 and eNB3 reply over the X2 interface with a
message carrying the time synchronisation information needed for RIBS and
possibly carrying a list of cells and transmission point location information.
The synchronisation target eNB1 can trigger over the X2 interface a request
for muting of some of the aggressor cells in neighbouring eNBs and
consequently receive muting pattern information from such eNBs in case the
muting was activated.It should be pointed out that in all the versions of
Solution 4 another mechanism to distribute transmission point location
information to relevant eNBs for the purpose of line of sight propagation
delay compensation can be achieved via OAM configuration.
## 5.4 Evaluation of solutions
### 5.4.1 Solution 1: Network based solution using detection of UE
transmission
_**Accuracy:** Is the solution designed able to fulfil the existing
requirements as described in this SI._
In Solution 1 a frequency synchronization mechanism, i.e., Synchronous
Ethernet, should be deployed and used to keep the phase/time drift within a
certain range. This mechanism can help maintaining the clock drift within
certain limits once the clock has been synchronised, but it does not provide a
clock synchronisation. Given that it is not possible to serve Ues in a
completely asynchronous network in TDD and it is unclear if this is possible
or not in FDD it is unclear how the solution allows serving Ues and performing
handovers. The network relies on receiving enough mobility events within the
time that it can be kept synchronized by Synchronous Ethernet based on ITU-T
specification. Assuming that an initial synchronisation is acquired the
solution relies on the capabilities of SyncE to contain phase/time
synchronisation drift in time. Such capabilities allow phase/time
synchronisation hold on times that span from tens of seconds to hours.
It is known that Ts is the basic time unit in LTE, which is equal to 32.55ns
(see TS 35.211). The timing advance (TA) value is sent from eNB to UE to keep
accuracy for transmission and to avoid network overload. The timing advance
command indicates the change of the uplink timing relative to the current
uplink timing as multiples of 16Ts (see TS36.213). Therefore propagation delay
compensation based on TA is subject to an error of 260ns due to this
granularity on the Uu interface, but will also depend on the timing estimation
error in the eNB. Given that solution 1 makes use of two TA settings to derive
propagation delay, timing estimation errors will accumulate. Considering the
accuracy of PRACH detection in eNBs and propagation delay between source and
target eNBs based on UE timing advance at source eNB and at target eNB, the
total reachable accuracy needs further study.
The accuracy of the solution depends on the accuracy of PRACH signal
detection. A PRACH preamble signal can be several milliseconds long, therefore
it should be analysed how two eNBs can ensure aligned time stamping, namely
that detection of PRACH access is done at the same point in the duration of
the RACH preamble.
The solution makes use of a statistical approach, which relies on receiving
enough mobility events within a given time interval. Such approach is valid so
long as the variations on the phase shift at an eNB within the time window
used for statistical evaluation and due to internal factors such as changes of
temperature, oscillator accuracy etc are small enough to allow to converge to
a sufficiently accurate value.
_**Added Value:** Is the solution designed able to address the problem of
synchronization in scenarios where other solutions do not work?_
When available (cf. "Availability", below), this solution can be used when
other methods are not applicable, e.g. when RIBS is not used, when GPS cannot
be used or when IEEE1588v2 is not deployed.
_**Availability:** Can the solution work in a stand-alone way, e.g. without
the need of other phase synchronization functions_
The solution requires an initial form of clock synchronisation to initialise
the network. The solution requires mobility events with sufficient frequency
to ensure that phase drift can be kept within given limits. The solution
requires support for the SyncE solution. Assuming that an initial clock
synchronisation is provided and that Ues can be served, the eNB only can be in
sync if there are enough mobility events. In case of HW reset implying reset
of the internal clock the eNB may lose synchronisation until triggering
conditions described below allow to re-establish the synchronisation.
_**Triggering of synchronisation updates:** Can the solution provide network
synchronization update when there is a need for it?_
Solution 1 can be triggered only when there are mobility events. If these
events occur often enough to ensure to maintain synchronisation, the solution
allows maintaining synchronisation.
_**Synchronisation signal robustness:** Is the synchronisation signal adopted
robust enough, e.g. subject to reduced interference_
Solution 1 relies on normal RACH transmission in the overlapped mobility area
in handover and the probability of RACH conflict is as per legacy systems. The
RACH procedure could be triggered in case UL synchronization is lost.
_**Impacts on network:** Are interfaces going to be modified and how. Is
network capacity going to be impacted and how._
Solution 1 is based on a deployed frequency synchronization mechanism to keep
the drift within certain range, i.e. it requires support of Synchronous
Ethernet. The solution requires introducing one new IE in the context release
message.
An optional RACH access procedure could help provide a more accurate value of
propagation delay in the handover source cell as part of the handover
procedures. In that case, it requires RACH access resources to be the same for
handover source and handover target eNBs.
_**Impacts on eNB:** Is the eNB's complexity going to be impacted and how._
In this solution the source and target eNBs are required to store the
reception time of the RACH. The source eNB should be able to listen to RACH
signalling in the target cell of the handover. If inter-frequency handovers
are used, the source eNB must therefore support reception of the target cell
frequency (UL).
_**Feasibility:** Is the solution and the assumptions on which the solution is
based, technically feasible and can be easily standardized?_
With the deployed Synchronous Ethernet, the network is able to keep time sync
for certain time duration. Within that duration, the source eNB needs to
detect the existing RACH signals sent from Ues performing mobility to other
nodes.
Feasibility of the solution depends on whether an initial source of
synchronisation is available. It has to be analysed whether it is feasible
that lack of mobility events results in the network entering non-synchronised
state. Feasibility of time stamping of RACH signals with required accuracy has
to be analysed.
It needs to be analysed what are the effect of RACH retransmission on the
solution accuracy. It needs to be analysed what is the impact of an extra RACH
access procedures as part of the handover procedure, in case this procedure is
used. In case the extra RACH access procedure is not used, propagation delay
accuracy needs to be analysed in the overall synchronisation accuracy.
As a summary, Solution 1 is targeting to utilize the mobility of Ues and
require source eNB to detect RACH which is sent to target eNB from UE as well
as triggering in band RACH access during HO procedures. It has dependency with
the availability of an initial source of synchronisation, especially for TDD
networks, and on deployed frequency synchronization mechanism, i.e.,
Synchronous Ethernet, to keep the time drifting within the range defined in
ITU-T. It also has dependency on UE mobility events. After eNB get the time
information and transfer by context release message, the target will process
the info by a statistical approach, however accuracy and feasibility require
further study. For the initial synchronization, and after hardware reset
implying reset of the internal clock, the network can only be synched if there
is incoming mobility.
### 5.4.2 Solution 2: OTA Synchronisation with Propagation Delay Compensation
_**Accuracy:** Is the solution designed able to fulfil the existing
requirements as described in this SI._
Solution 2 is based on the same principle on which RIBS is based namely
achieving local synchronisation by means of locking on strong enough reference
signals of neighbouring cells.
Solution 2 also aims at enabling the target node to compensate for the full
propagation delay between synchronisation source and synchronisation target.
The air propagation delay compensation utilises reference signals such as PRS
and CRS, sent out by the target node and by the source node, and time-stamped
upon sending and reception. The compensation of propagation delays is subject
to the measurement error for reception of reference signals, taking into
account that a single measurement occasion is available per time-stamp. A
difference from the mechanism used by RIBS is that also the synchronisation
source node needs to perform measurements on reference signals transmitted by
the synchronisation target node. Such method requires to evaluate whether
sufficient accuracy can be achieved when measuring reference signals both at
synchronisation source and synchronisation target, i.e. synchronisation would
be affected by a double measurement error.
Accuracy at least as good as with RIBS can be achieved. Due to differences
between the mechanism used for RIBS and the mechanism used for propagation
delay compensation in Solution 2, the accuracy of the propagation delay
compensation requires further analysis.
_**Added Value:** Is the solution designed able to address the problem of
synchronization in scenarios where other solutions do not work?_
The design target is to enable over the air synchronisation by means of
reference signals reception and by compensating measured inter-cell
propagation delay. Accuracy of the solution needs further evaluation. Assuming
that propagation delays can be compensated, Solution 2 is able to provide
improved accuracy in scenarios where over the air propagation is subject to
large synchronisation errors that might prevent from achieving requirements.
_**Availability:** Can the solution work in a stand-alone way, i.e. without
the need of other phase synchronization functions_
Solution 2 is based on the same principles as RIBS and uses reference signals
such as PRS and CRS for over the air synchronisation. The solution triggers a
request of synchronisation information from synchronisation target to
synchronisation source as needed at the synchronisation target. The solution
is a full solution and it is designed to work in a stand-alone way.
Solution 2 can work in a stand-alone way.
_**Triggering of synchronisation updates:** Can the solution provide network
synchronization update when there is a need for it?_
Solution 2 can provide synchronisation updates whenever needed.
_**Synchronisation signal robustness:** Is the synchronisation signal adopted
robust enough, e.g. subject to reduced interference_
Solution 2 adopts Reference Signals for synchronisation. RS signals are
designed to be robust as they need to be detected by Ues for mobility
measurements, positioning, DL channel quality estimation etc. Several
techniques are available to avoid RS interference (e.g. symbol shifting),
which make these signals reliable. RS signals may be subject to interference
from data channels.
Solution 2 relies on cell specific Reference Signals for synchronisation.
These signals are designed to be robust but may be subject to interference.
_**Impacts on network:** Are interfaces going to be modified and how. Is
network capacity going to be impacted and how._
Solution 2 will bring an impact on interfaces. Interfaces will have to be
modified with procedures allowing exchange of timing information.
If solution 2 adopts muting of aggressor cells signals to facilitate reception
of reference signals an impact on network capacity similar to the one
calculated for RIBS is foreseen. A possible difference with respect to RIBS is
that both the synchronisation source and synchronisation target may need to
activate muting. If muting schemes similar to those used for RIBS are used
this would imply a maximum muting frequency of 1 subframe every 1280ms at
synchronisation source and synchronisation target. In case PRS signals are
used and in case there is the need to increase the robustness of PRS
reception, higher PRS resources may need to be assigned, which may impact
network capacity.
Solution 2 has an impact on interfaces due to the introduction of procedures
for exchange of timing information. An impact on network capacity may be
sustained if PRS signals need to be allocated more resources for the purpose
of being robust enough.
_**Impacts on eNB:** Is the eNB's complexity going to be impacted and how._
Solution 2 needs changes to the eNB's interfaces and internal processes. The
solution requires support of a DL receiver for FDD in each node involved in
the solution procedures namely an FDD downlink receiver will be needed in both
the synchronisation source and synchronisation target node. For TDD the
solution does not require any extra capability (i.e. any extra receivers) at
the nodes involved in the procedures receivers' side.
Solution 2 has an impact on eNB complexity due to the implementation of a new
solution requiring changes on the network interfaces. For FDD, solution 2
requires support for reception of DL signals at the eNB, while for TDD the
solution does not require any changes to the receiver capabilities as compared
to RIBS enabled receivers (see TR 36.872).
_**Feasibility:** Is the solution and the assumptions on which the solution is
based, technically feasible and can be easily standardized?_
The solution is subject to further analysis on accuracy. The analysis should
check whether sufficient levels of synchronisation can be achieved in presence
of two measurement errors following detection of reference signals both at
source and at target eNB. If the solution is proven to provide sufficient
accuracy, the solution is feasible. Solution 2 requires adequate
standardisation effort to be specified.
The solution can be applicable in cases where the source and target node can
detect each other's reference signals, i.e. detected reference signals need to
be strong enough.
Summary of Solution 2 Evaluation:
In summary, Solution 2 is based on the reference signals such as PRS and CRS,
but the mechanism for propagation delay compensation presents some differences
compared to mechanisms used for RIBS in particular absolute time-stamping of
arrival of reference signals and the need for the synchronisation source node
to perform measurements on reference signals transmitted by the
synchronisation target node. Under the assumption that Solution 2 is able to
deliver sufficient accuracy (which remains to be analysed) Solution 2 provides
an enhancement to over the air synchronisation that compensates for over the
air propagation delay. Assuming that sufficient accuracy can be delivered, the
solution is feasible. The solution is based on reception of over the air
signals by the source synchronisation eNB and target synchronisation eNB.
### 5.4.3 Solution 3: OTA Synchronisation with Propagation Delay Compensation
Based on Timing Advance
_**Accuracy:** Is the solution designed able to fulfil the existing
requirements as described in this SI._
The requirements are not fulfilled in the initial phase (unsynchronized or
coarsely synchronized). However the duration of this initial phase, following
eNB deployment, may be significantly shortened down by the presence of Ues
during deployment / activation of the eNB, e.g. belonging to personnel
deploying the eNB. In case of reset of the eNB hardware, the eNB may restart
and resume operation in synchronized state using the RIBS method with
compensation of the propagation delay based on the previously used value
(stored before the hardware reset in non-volatile memory).
Error of the Timing Advance measurement is 260 ns (corresponds to half of the
TA step). This value is based on the assumption of negligible propagation
delay between the synchronization target eNB (transmission point) and the
UE(s) used for the Timing Advance measurement (served by the synchronization
source cell).
_**Added Value:** Is the solution designed able to address the problem of
synchronization in scenarios where other solutions do not work?_
The design target is to enhance RIBS by providing measured inter-cell
propagation delay. The solution addresses the described problem when the sync
target eNB is a small cell within which the intra-cell propagation delay is
negligible.
_**Availability:** Can the solution work in a stand-alone way, i.e. without
the need of other phase synchronization functions_
The RIBS method is embedded in solution 3.
_**Triggering of synchronisation updates:** Can the solution provide network
synchronization update when there is a need for it?_
Yes. Drift compensation is taken care of by RIBS. Solution 3 requires the
presence of Ues, which is not an issue because propagation delay compensation
only requires sporadic updates. Need for such updates may come from changes in
the environment (e.g. building) impacting reflections and hence the effective
propagation delay in the synchronization source cell.
_**Synchronisation signal robustness:** Is the synchronisation signal adopted
robust enough, e.g. subject to reduced interference_
Calculation of Timing Advance is based on PUSCH, PUCCH and SRS transmissions,
and the eNB will adjust the TA based on these signals. The TA process is
therefore robust.
_**Impacts on network:** Are interfaces going to be modified and how. Is
network capacity going to be impacted and how._
There is network interface impact to transfer the propagation delay.
_**Impacts on eNB:** Is the eNB's complexity going to be impacted and how?_
Only SW impact.
_**Feasibility:** Is the solution and the assumptions on which the solution is
based, technically feasible and can be easily standardized?_
No identified feasibility issue.
In summary, Solution 3 is based on RIBS enhanced by propagation delay
compensation. The propagation delay compensation is based on Timing Advance.
The solution targets a specific use-case where the synchronisation target is a
small cell with negligible intra-cell propagation delay. The solution fulfils
the requirements based on the indicated assumption.
### 5.4.4 Solution 4: Propagation Delay Compensation for RIBS Based on
Location Information Exchange
_**Accuracy:** Is the solution designed able to fulfil the existing
requirements as described in this SI._
Solution 4 is builds on top of RIBS. Therefore, under the assumption that
strong enough synchronisation signals, able to make utilisation of RIBS
applicable, are available an accuracy at least equal to what RIBS can achieve
is foreseen, i.e. at least 2.5µs, as captured in TR36.898.
Solution 4 has the advantage to enhance RIBS to allow for compensation of line
of sight propagation delay between synchronisation source and synchronisation
target. In a typical case of inter eNB distance of 300m, compensation of line
of sight propagation delays improves accuracy of at least 1µs. The methods in
Solution 4 may be subject to propagation delay calculation errors due to
divergence of actual propagation delays from line of sight delays. However,
there delays can be considered a marginal portion of the line of sight delays.
Under the assumption that a strong enough synchronisation signal is available,
Solution 4 can fulfil existing synchronisation requirements
_**Added Value:** Is the solution designed able to address the problem of
synchronization in scenarios where other solutions do not work?_
Solution 4 is able to provide improved accuracy in scenarios where over the
air propagation is subject to large synchronisation errors that might prevent
from achieving requirements. Namely the solution addresses the problem of
synchronisation in cases where RIBs accuracy is not sufficient. This is
because the solution has an inherent mechanism to calculate and compensate for
propagation delays.
In scenarios where RIBS accuracy is poor, Solution 4 solved the problem of
synchronisation and allows for improved accuracy thanks to compensation of
propagation delays
_**Availability:** Can the solution work in a stand-alone way, i.e. without
the need of other phase synchronization functions_
Solution 4 consists of an enhanced version of RIBS. RIBS is designed to work
in a stand-alone way.
Solution 4 can work in a standalone way.
_**Triggering of synchronisation updates:** Can the solution provide network
synchronization update when there is a need for it?_
Solution 4 is based on independent synchronisation updates triggered via RIBS.
This solution can trigger the exchange of location information for propagation
delay compensation in cases where such information is not available at the
synchronisation target eNB. It can therefore provide synchronisation updates
whenever needed
Solution 4 can provide synchronisation updates when needed.
_**Synchronisation signal robustness:** Is the synchronisation signal adopted
robust enough, e.g. subject to reduced interference_
Solution 4 adopts Reference Signals for synchronisation. RS signals are
designed to be robust as they need to be detected by Ues for mobility
measurements, positioning, DL channel quality estimation etc. Several
techniques are available to avoid RS interference (e.g. symbol shifting),
which make these signals reliable. RS signals may be subject to interference
from data channels.
Solution 4 relies on cell specific Reference Signals for synchronisation.
These signals are designed to be robust but may be subject to interference.
_**Impacts on network:** Are interfaces going to be modified and how. Is
network capacity going to be impacted and how._
Solution 4 will bring minimum impact on interfaces. Solution 4 relies on
signalling already specified for RIBS. The only addition is geolocation
information to the existing RIBS procedures (one new IE).
Solution 4 has no impact on system capacity
_**Impacts on eNB:** Is the eNB's complexity going to be impacted and how._
Solution 4 has minimum complexity because it builds on RIBS, which is already
specified and it consists of adding one new IE to existing signalling. As
already the case for RIBS the solution requires support of a DL receiver for
FDD while for TDD it does not require any extra capability at the receiver
side.
_**Feasibility:** Is the solution and the assumptions on which the solution is
based, technically feasible and can be easily standardized?_
Solution 4 assumptions are that over the air signals can be used to gain
synchronisation and that location information of transmission points are
available at an eNB. These assumptions are feasible at least in deployments
where transmission points location information are needed for other uses such
as UE positioning. Solution 4 is technically feasible to implement. Solution 4
requires minimum standardisation effort to be specified.
Solution 4 is technically feasible. Solution 4 requires adequate
standardisation effort in order to be specified.
Summary of Solution 4 Evaluation:
Solution 4 provides a simple and feasible enhancement based on the
availability of RIBS. The solution enables compensation of line of sight
propagation delay, which improves the accuracy of RIBS.
# 6 Conclusions
The SI aimed to find synchronization solutions that would benefit features
introduced from Rel-9 to Rel-13, e.g., eICIC, eMBMS, NAICS, eCOMP, which
benefit from synchronisation of the network and provide better performance
with synchronisation than without synchronisation. The SI aimed to find
synchronisation solutions with low cost, low complexity, without UE impacts
and with synchronization accuracy comparable with existing solutions.
Before RAN#72 there was already an evaluation for the aspects of cost,
complexity impact to eNB and UE. For the impact to UE, the feasibility of the
standardization of the timestamps T1 and T2, the RAN1 LS reply [5] agreed that
there is no UE specification impact and no related work in RAN1 for Solution1.
For the synchronization accuracy of solution 1, RAN4 concluded that for some
eNB implementations, performing better than the performance requirements in TS
36.104, the timing accuracy of solution 1 is within 1 us based on some
company's results, and in that case within the requirement of section 5.1 [6].
For solution 2, RAN4 further concluded that solution 2 can achieve timing
accuracy within 0.5 us for 3-20 MHz bandwidth based on some company's results,
and within 1 us based on some company's results with 1.4 MHz system bandwidth,
which is also within the requirement of section 5.1 [6].
Therefore the following conclusion could be given for the four solutions:
Solution 1 is a method using information collected from legacy Ues during
handover, aiming at fulfilling LTE radio synchronisation requirements for
nodes equipped with 22thernet based frequency synchronisation. The solution
aims at compensating phase drift as well as over-the-air propagation delay.
With regards to "availability" Solution 1 requires an initial form of clock
synchronisation to initialise the network. Without this the network will start
in an unsynchronised way. Assuming that an initial clock synchronisation is
provided and that Ues can be served, the eNB only can be in sync if there are
enough mobility events. Without this the network will become unsynchronised.
There is dependency for solution 1 on the characteristics of the supporting
TNL synchronisation (e.g. Synchronous Ethernet). Therefore, it is concluded
that Solution 1 does not fulfil the "availability" criteria.
With regards to "triggering of synchronisation updates", Solution 1 can be
triggered only when there are sufficient mobility events. If there are no
mobility events it is not possible to synchronise the network when needed.
Also the need for synchronisation depends on the features and the
characteristics of the supporting TNL synchronisation (e.g. Synchronous
Ethernet). Therefore Solution 1 does not fulfil the "triggering of
synchronisation updates" criteria with dependency on the mobility events.
With regards to feasibility, RAN4 specified that it is not feasible for some
features, to lose synchronisation [6]. Examples of such features could be TDD
and MIMO. Therefore, Solution 1 is not feasible in a standalone way in case
these features are used.
The solution 1 may require triggering of an extra PRACH access procedure
before or during the handover procedure, which represents extra cost in terms
of RRC signalling and may also delay the handover. Solution 1 could meet the
synchronization requirement as described above.
Solution 2, 3 and 4 all aim at enhancing over-the-air synchronisation (RIBS)
by compensating the inter-cell propagation delay. Hence all these solutions
require a DL receiver in the synchronisation target eNB, while solution 2
additionally requires such DL receiver in the synchronisation source FDD eNB.
According to earlier RAN1 study (TR 36.872) the TDD eNB may require additional
baseband reception capability.
According to the further evaluation in RAN4 it is agreed that solution 2 could
meet the synchronization requirement which is defined in section 5.1 of the
existing requirements under certain conditions as indicated in RAN4's reply
LS.
Solution 3 targets a specific use-case where the synchronisation target is a
small cell, under the condition that the propagation delay between a UE
handing over to the synchronisation target and the synchronisation target
receiver is negligible. The solution can bring benefit for this use-case under
the assumption that the propagation delay compensation based on TA measurement
is able to improve the accuracy of RIBS.
Solution 4 is based on transfer of O&M provisioned location information on
network interfaces, and will compensate for line-of-sight propagation delay
between a synchronisation source and a synchronisation target. Enhancement of
Solution 4 to cover compensation of multi-hop propagation delay in deployments
using physical layer repeaters may be considered but was not evaluated in the
present study.
For solution 3 and 4 no further study or normative work are required by other
groups.
###### ### Annex A: Existing solutions
# A.1Existing solutions
Table A.1-1 lists solutions that have been used so far to enable
synchronisation in the E-UTRAN network.
Table A.1-1: Existing solutions
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sync Method | Freq Sync | Phase Sync | Comment | | | | | | | | (Achievable on | (Achievable on | | | | the radio | the radio | | | | interface) | interface) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Synchronous | ±0.05 ppm or | --- | SyncE must be | | PDH / SDH / | better | | supported on | | Synchronous | | | all nodes in | | Ethernet | | | the sync | | (SyncE) | | | chain. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T recc. | | | | | (G.803, G.813, | | | | | G.8261, | | | | | G.8262, etc.) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | --- | It does not | | for freq only | | | require | | sync | | | on-path | | | | | support | | | | | between Master | | | | | and Slave. | | | | | Performance | | | | | depends on | | | | | load of | | | | | network. See | | | | | applicable | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | recc.(e.g. | | | | | G.8261.1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IEEE1588 PTP | ±0.05 ppm | 250ns -- 1.5μs | See applicable | | for freq/phase | | | ITU-T | | sync (partial | | | recc.(e.g. | | timing support | | | G.8271.1) | | under study) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sattelite time | \< ±0.01 ppm | \< 100ns | Receiver | | reference | | | antenna and | | (e.g. GPS) | | | cabling | | | | | installation | | | | | can be | | | | | expensive in | | | | | indoor | | | | | installations. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NTP (Network | ±0.05 ppm | FFS | Depends on | | Timing | | | network | | Protocol) | | | c | | | | | haracteristics | | | | | (similar rules | | | | | as for PTP | | | | | apply in case | | | | | of frequency | | | | | sync; also in | | | | | this case a | | | | | specific clock | | | | | recovery | | | | | algorithm is | | | | | required) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RIBS Radio | ±0.1 ppm | 2.5μs | LTE-FDD: | | Interface | | | Requires | | Based | | | capability to | | S | | | listen to sync | | ynchronization | | | source | | (3GPP R12) | | | downlink | | | | | frequency band | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#