# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is related to the technical report of the study item
\"Study on Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN \" (RP-160534 [2]).
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts on the Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
The present document gathers all technical outcome of the study item, and
draws a conclusion on the way forward.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-160534 New SI on Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, China Telecom,
Huawei
[3] R3-160707, Possible solutions for eNB ID extension in a PLMN, Huawei
[4] R3-160709, Possible solutions to extend maximum number of cells in an eNB,
Huawei
[5] R3-160864, Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[6] R3-161320 Solution of "Using Multiple PLMN IDs"in Study on Flexible eNB-ID
and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[7] R3-161321 Solution of "Reusing eNB ID in different geographic areas" in
Study on Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[8] R3-161322 Solution of "Fixed extension of eNB ID"in Study on Flexible eNB-
ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[9] R3-161160 Evaluation on the Possible Solutions for eNB-ID extension, China
Telecom Huawei
[10] R3-161322 Solution of "Fixed extension of eNB ID"in Study on Flexible
eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[11] R3-161321 Solution of "Reusing eNB ID in different geographic areas" in
Study on Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[12] R3-161767,Extending maximum number of cells in eNB -- Solution 1,Nokia,
Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell
[13] R3-161918, Solution of "Establish an interface instance per eNB" in Study
Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[14] R3-161919, Solution of "Fixed extension of Cell bits" in Study on
Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[15] R3-161768,Extending maximum number of cells in eNB -- Solution 3 ,Nokia,
Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell
[16] R3-161697, Solutions evaluation on maximum number of cells extension in
an eNB, Huawei, China Telecom
[17] R3-161920, Solution of "Supporting more Macro eNB IDs in an interface
instance" in Study Flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN, Ericsson
[18] R3-161801, Evaluation on the remain issues of the possible solutions for
eNB-ID Extension, China Telecommunications
[19] R3-162074, Conclusion of the flexible eNB-ID and Cell-ID in E-UTRAN,
China Telecom, Huawei, Ericsson, Nokia, NEC
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ANR Automatic Neighbour Relation
CAPEX Capital Expenditure
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CI Cell Identity
CN Core Network
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
E-SMLC Evolved Serving Mobile Location Centre
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile Communication
HeNB Home eNB
MCE Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity
MME Mobility Management Entity
OPEX Operating Expense
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
SIM Subscriber Identification Module
TA Tracking Area
UE User Equipment
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 General
**The objective of this study [2] is to identify potential technologies to
deploy a large number of eNB's and also eNB's that can handle more Cells' in
E-UTRAN. The detailed objective is as follows:**
1\. investigate and evaluate the potential solutions to:
\- Support of the number of eNB beyond 1.04 million in a PLMN
\- Support of the number of cells beyond 256 in an eNB
2\. The evaluation should take into account the following:
\- No impact on UE operation and air interfaces;
\- Minimize the impacts on CN;
\- Co-existence and inter-working with current Macro and HeNBs
# 5 Extend maximum number of eNBs in a PLMN
## 5.1 Evaluation criteria
The solutions presented this study shall be analysed with the following
evaluation criteria:
\- Impact on existing nodes (UE, CN and upper layers, eNB, UTRAN, GSM, WLAN)
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Impact on specification , existing features and procedures
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX
## 5.2 Possible Solutions
### 5.2.1 Solution 1: Fixed extension of eNB ID
This solution is to extend the eNB ID by a fixed number of bits (e.g.1 or 2
bits) while keeping the CI length (28bits) unchanged. The eNB ID is introduced
as an extendable choice IE using 21 bits extension as an example. The solution
requires modification on different 3GPP specifications when moving the
boundary in ECI so that eNB could use 20+N bits, while Cell ID uses 8-N bits.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _eNB | M | | | | | ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Macro eNB | | | | | | > ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Macro | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > eNB ID | | | (SIZE(20)) | 20 leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by the | | | | | | eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Home eNB | | | | | | > ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Home eNB | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > ID | | | (SIZE(28)) | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of the | | | | | | cell served by | | | | | | the eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Extended | | | | | | > eNB ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Extended | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > eNB ID | | | (SIZE(21)) | 21 leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by the | | | | | | eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 Solution 2: Using Multiple PLMN IDs
To allow more eNBs in an operator network, the operator could use more than
one PLMN ID in the network to support more than 1.04 million eNBs in their
network.
#### 5.2.2.1 Solution 2a: The New PLMN(s) Configured as Equivalent PLMN
The Equivalent PLMN has been introduced since 3GPP R99 specifications and also
adopted to the LTE. It extends the HPLMN concept to a set of PLMNs which the
mobile equipment considers as equivalent.
One main purpose of ePLMN is to help the operator who has different PLMN codes
should all be treated as a single HPLMN.
So when a new PLMN is acquired by the operator, for the purpose such as to
handle the situation of having more than 1 million eNBs deployed, the new PLMN
is declared as an equivalent PLMN of the existing PLMN.
The E-PLMN list is signalled to the mobile equipment by the MME, MSC or SGSN,
from the registered PLMN, at each Tracking Area Update, Location Area Update,
Routing Area Update and IMSI Attach procedures via a dedicated signalling
connection. For example in LTE, it is included in the Tracking Area Update
Accept message.
The mobile equipment shall store the list of \"equivalent PLMNs\". The mobile
equipment shall treat these PLMNs as equivalent to each other for PLMN
selection and cell selection/reselection and handover.
#### 5.2.2.2 Solution 2b: Network Sharing
The operator has been using one PLMN ID and now adds one or more new PLMN IDs.
The following notation is used:
\- PLMN A: existing PLMN in the operator network.
\- PLMN B: New PLMN added in the operator network in order to enable
deployment of more eNBs.
The user equipments are all registered in PLMN A.
The eNBs broadcast system information in SIB 1. As a single cell can belong to
multiple PLMNs, so SIB 1 may broadcast a list of PLMN identities.
\- Existing eNBs:
\- Broadcasted primary PLMN: PLMN A
\- Broadcasted secondary PLMN: None
\- New added eNBs:
\- Broadcasted primary PLMN: PLMN B
\- Broadcasted secondary PLMN: PLMN A
The MMEs are configured to support both PLMNs and regard them as equivalent:
\- Served PLMNs: PLMN A and PLMN B
\- Served Group IDs: No update needed
\- Served MMEC: No update needed
With this configuration a UE whose SIM is registered on PLMN A is able to
request services on the eNBs with primary PLMN B. All identifiers required for
identifying the new eNBs use PLMN B. The UE supporting LTE supports reading of
the multiple PLMNs.
### 5.2.3 Solution 3: Reusing eNB ID in different geographic areas
This solution is to reuse eNB IDs for the areas that are geographically very
far apart. And the definition of the far apart areas is defined as:
\- The probability that a UE in Area A detects an eNB in Area B is not
significant.
\- The probability that a UE in Area B detects an eNB in Area A is not
significant.
\- The interference by an Area A eNB in Area B is not significant
\- The interference by an Area B eNB in Area A is not significant
An eNB in Area B using the same eNB ID as an eNB in Area A are configured with
different tracking areas and there is neither the chance that those tracking
areas ever appear in the same TA list any UE is registered, nor any possible
the two TA lists are "neighbouring" TA lists.
Since the eNBs do not detect each other based on UE measurements and do not
cause any interference there is no need to setup X2 between them. UE would not
be in need to handover between the eNBs with the reused ID either via S1 or
via X2, and the UE does not need to report network neighbours between those
eNBs.
#### 5.2.3.1 Solution 3a: Without duplication of ECGI
The Cell-ID (8 bits) in ECGI can not be reused in the far apart areas. There
are no cells with the same ECGI in the operator's network.
#### 5.2.3.2 Solution 3b: With duplication of ECGI
The Cell-ID (8bit) in ECGI can be reused in the far apart areas. There are two
or more cells with the same ECGI in the operator's networks.
#### 5.2.3.3 Solution 3c: Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC
This solution is to reuse eNB IDs together with TAC to ensure uniqueness of
eNB ID in each tracking area. TAC consists of 16-bits and ECI consists of 28
bits and the combined use of them can yield greater deployment flexibility.
TAC and ECGI are already available in SIB1, _MeasResults_ RLF Reporting.
## 5.3 Evaluations
### 5.3.1 Evaluation on "Fixed extension of eNB ID"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE : There is no change on ECI (28 bits), therefore there is no impacts on
the UE
\- eNB: The existing eNB needs to be upgrade for this new type eNB ID. Core
Networks (e.g. MME, SGSN): The MME and SGSN need to be upgraded to understand
and properly handle the new type of eNB ID.
\- GSM/UTRAN: UTRAN/GSM needs to be upgrade for this new type eNB ID. The NRT
of neighbouring BTS and RNC is also needed to be configured this new type of
eNB ID.
\- WLAN/MCE: needs to be upgrade to understand the new type of eNB ID
\- CBC: the CBC is impacted to understand the new type of eNB ID.
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing system: No impact
\- Location system: The location system is impacted. e.g. E-SMLC
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- Specification and procedures: This solution has impact on S1AP, X2AP, M2AP,
XwAP, LCSAP, SBC-AP, gtp-C. Assuming one IE (the Global eNB-ID) is changed per
procedure.
\- S1AP: S1 setup, Public Warning System functionality, S1 HO Required,
eNB/MME Configuration Transfer
\- X2AP: X2 setup, X2 Release, X2 Removal, X2AP Message Transfer
\- M2AP: ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE, M2 SETUP REQUEST
\- XwAP: WT Setup
\- LCSAP: LCS-AP Connectionless Information
\- SBC-AP: PWS Restart Indication
\- GTP-C: RIM, and inter-RAT handover procedure
\- Features:
\- ANR: Extra configuration is needed similar to open HeNB
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- The legacy node refers to the node (e.g., eNB, MME, and etc) only
understand the existing PLMN and support 20bits (Macro eNB) or 28bits (HeNB)
length of eNB-ID.
\- The legacy node need to be upgraded to understand the new type eNB-ID,
otherwise the legacy node will reject the message including the new type of
eNB IDs.
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- The neighbouring nodes need to be configured to understanding the new eNB
ID.
\- With this configuration, the multiple eNBs with the same 20 bits eNB-ID are
permitted to be deployed in the same region.
\- Other impact:
\- By moving the boundary in ECI to extend eNB-ID will result fewer cell-ID
for one eNB-ID
### 5.3.2 Evaluation on "Using Multiple PLMN IDs"
#### 5.3.2.1 Evaluation on "the New PLMN(s) Configured as Equivalent PLMN"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE: There is no impact on the UE and SIM card.
\- eNB: No impact on the existing eNBs,
\- Core Network: The MMEs connected to at least one new eNodeB needs to be
configured with the new PLMN of the operator.
\- UTRAN/GSM/WLAN: No impact on the existing nodes.
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing System: The billing system should be configured with the new PLMN-
ID
\- Location system: No impact
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- no impact on specifications
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- The Legacy node should be configured to understand the new PLMN, inter-PLMN
handover function shall be enabled for both CN and eNB
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- If the operator has no other PLMN-ID for LTE, they needs to apply one or
more PLMN-ID
\- Need to configure the PLMN ID in neighbour nodes
#### 5.3.2.2 Evaluation on "Network Sharing"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE: No impact on UE and SIM card
\- eNB: No impact on the existing eNBs.
\- Core Network: The MMEs connected to at least one new eNodeB needs to be
configured with the new PLMN of the operator.
\- UTRAN/GSM/WLAN: No impact on the existing nodes.
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing System: The billing system should be configured with the new PLMN-
ID
\- Location system: No impact
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- No impact on specifications
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- The Legacy node should be configured to understand the new PLMN, inter-PLMN
handover function shall be enabled for both CN and eNB
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- If the operator has no other PLMN-ID for LTE, they needs to apply one or
more PLMN-ID
\- Need to configure the PLMN ID in neighbour nodes
### 5.3.3 Evaluation on "Reusing eNB ID in different geographic areas"
#### 5.3.3.1 Evaluation on "Without duplication of ECGI"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE: No impact on UE
\- eNB: No impact on the existing eNBs
\- Core Network: There is impact on MME
\- UTRAN/GSM/WLAN: No impact on the existing nodes.
\- CBC: There is impact on CBC
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing System: No impact
\- Location system: The location system is impacted. e.g. E-SMLC
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- Impact on features e.g. RLF report.
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- Planning issue because eNB should be placed in different pool areas to
avoid S1 setup issue
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- Core Network, Location system shall be updated
\- Other impacts
\- This solution will result in fewer Cell-ID in one eNB
#### 5.3.3.2 Evaluation on "With duplication of ECGI"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE: No impact on UE
\- eNB: No impact on the existing eNBs
\- Core Network: There is impact on MME
\- UTRAN/GSM/WLAN: No impact on the existing nodes.
\- CBC: There is impact on CBC
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing System: The auxiliary information shall be configured if location
based charging are applied
\- Location system: The location system is impacted. e.g. E-SMLC
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- Impact on features e.g. RLF report.
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- Planning issue because eNB should be placed in different pool areas to
avoid S1 setup issue
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- Core Network, Location system, and Billing system shall be updated
#### 5.3.3.3 Evaluation on "Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC"
\- Impact on existing nodes
\- UE: No impact on UE
\- eNB: No impact on the existing eNBs
\- Core Network: S1 setup issue
\- OAM system: Error generation.
\- UTRAN/GSM/WLAN: No impact on the existing nodes.
\- CBC: There is impact on CBC
\- Impact on the Billing system and Location system
\- Billing System: Auxiliary information shall be configured if location based
charging are applied.
\- Location system: The location system is impacted. e.g. E-SMLC.
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures
\- Impact on features e.g. Impact on MDT.
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- The legacy node need to be upgraded, otherwise the legacy node may reject
the message.
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- Core Network, Location system, and Billing system shall be updated
# 6 Extend maximum number of Cells in an eNB
## 6.1 Evaluation criteria
The solutions presented this study shall be analysed with the following
evaluation criteria:
\- Impact on existing nodes (UE, CN and upper layers, eNB, UTRAN, GSM, WLAN)
\- Impact on specification , existing features and procedures (e.g. restart)
\- Impact on interworking with legacy nodes
\- Impact on Signalling (e.g. load)
\- Impact on network planning (e.g, PCI planning)
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX
## 6.2 Possible Solutions
### 6.2.1 Solution 1: Integrate multiple logical eNBs into a single physical
eNB
This solution is to integrate multiple logical eNBs into a single physical
eNB, which is an implementation choice available today. The physical eNB can
serve 256 cells per logical eNB that is integrated.
Each logical eNB will follow current standards, and establish a separate S1
interface with the MME and a separate X2 interface with logical eNBs that are
not integrated into the physical eNB. There is no need for an X2 interface
between logical eNBs that are integrated. The Path Switch Request procedure is
still required for handovers between cells of the physical eNB when the source
and target belong to different logical eNBs.
### 6.2.2 Solution 2: Fixed extension of Cell bits
This solution is to reduce he eNB ID by a fixed number of bits (e.g.1 or 2
bits), enabling the maximum supported cells to be 512 or 1024 accordingly. The
eNB ID is introduced as an extendable choice IE, which is using 18 bits
extension as an example.
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | CHOICE _eNB | M | | | | | ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Macro eNB | | | | | | > ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Macro | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > eNB ID | | | (SIZE(20)) | 20 leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by the | | | | | | eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Home eNB | | | | | | > ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Home eNB | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > ID | | | (SIZE(28)) | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of the | | | | | | cell served by | | | | | | the eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > _> Extended | | | | | | > short eNB | | | | | | > ID_ | | | | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >>Extended | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to the | | > short eNB ID | | | (SIZE(18)) | 18 leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | | _Cell | | | | | | Identity_ IE | | | | | | contained in | | | | | | the _E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI_ IE of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by the | | | | | | eNB. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.2.3 Solution3: Supporting more Macro eNB IDs in an interface instance
This solution is to allow the eNB to have a list of additional Macro eNB IDs
(20bits eNB ID). This results in a logical eNB supporting multiple Global eNB
IDs as follows:
\- Global eNB ID indicated by the legacy _Global eNB ID_ IE, and
\- additional Global eNB IDs created from the list of additional Macro eNB IDs
and having the same PLMN Identity as the legacy _Global eNB ID_ IE.
The eNB establishes a single interface with the MME and neighbour eNBs, and
informs them of the list of additional Macro eNB IDs.
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Additional | | _1 .. | | | | eNB ID list | | \ | | | | | | * | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > _>Macro | M | | BIT STRING | Equal to | | > eNB ID _| | | (SIZE(20)) | the 20 | | | | | | leftmost | | | | | | bits of the | | | | | |_ Cell | | | | | | Identity _| | | | | | IE | | | | | | contained | | | | | | in the | | | | | |_ E-UTRAN | | | | | | CGI* IE of | | | | | | each cell | | | | | | served by | | | | | | the eNB. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofeNBIDs Maximum no. of additional eNBID allowed
for an eNB, the maximum value is FFS.
* * *
### 6.2.4 Solution 4: Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC
The solution in Section 5.2.3.3 can be readily applied to extend maximum
number of Cells per eNB as described in section 6 by using more than one TAC
per eNB.
## 6.3 Evaluations
### 6.3.1 Evaluation on "Integrate multiple logical eNBs into a single
physical eNB"
\- Impact on existing nodes: None.
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures: None.
\- Impact on interworking with legacy nodes: None.
\- Impact on signalling: None.
\- Impact on network planning: None.
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX: None.
### 6.3.2 Evaluation on "Fixed extension of Cell bits"
\- Impact on existing nodes (UE, CN and upper layers, eNB, UTRAN, GSM, WLAN):
\- UE : There is no change on ECI (28 bits), therefore there is no impacts on
the UE
\- eNB: The existing eNB needs to be upgrade for this new type eNB ID. Core
Networks (e.g. MME, SGSN): The MME and SGSN need to be upgraded to understand
and properly handle the new type of eNB ID.
\- GSM/UTRAN: UTRAN/GSM needs to be upgrade for this new type eNB ID. The NRT
of neighbouring BTS and RNC is also needed to be configured this new type of
eNB ID.
\- WLAN/MCE: needs to be upgrade to understand the new type of eNB ID
\- CBC: the CBC is impacted to understand the new type of eNB ID.
\- Billing system: No Impact.
\- Location system: The location system is impacted. e.g. E-SMLC
\- Impact on specification , existing features and procedures (e.g. restart):
\- Specification and procedures: This solution has impact on S1AP, X2AP, M2AP,
XwAP, LCSAP, SBC-AP, gtp-C. Assuming one IE (the Global eNB-ID) is changed per
procedure.
\- S1AP: S1 setup, Public Warning System functionality, S1 HO Required,
eNB/MME Configuration Transfer
\- X2AP: X2 setup, X2 Release, X2 Removal, X2AP Message Transfer
\- M2AP: ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE, M2 SETUP REQUEST
\- XwAP: WT Setup
\- LCSAP: LCS-AP Connectionless Information
\- SBC-AP: PWS Restart Indication
\- GTP-C: RIM, and inter-RAT handover procedure
\- Impact on Restart: longer restarting time depending on implementation
\- Features:
\- ANR: Extra configuration is needed similar to open HeNB.
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- The legacy node refers to the node (e.g., eNB, MME, and etc) only
understand the existing PLMN and support 20bits (Macro eNB) or 28bits (HeNB)
length of eNB-ID.
\- The legacy node need to be upgraded to understand the new type eNB-ID,
otherwise the legacy node will reject the message including the new type of
eNB IDs.
\- Impact on Signalling (e.g. load): no impact.
\- Impact on network planning (e.g, PCI planning): may need better PCI
planning
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- The neighbouring nodes need to be configured to understanding the new eNB
ID.
\- With this configuration, the multiple eNBs with the same 20 bits eNB-ID are
permitted to be deployed in the same region.
\- For OPEX we don't need to increase the ip@ number/interfaces b
\- Other impact:
\- By moving the boundary in ECI to extend eNB-ID will result fewer cell-ID
for one eNB-ID
### **6.3.3** Evaluation on "Supporting more Macro eNB IDs in an interface
instance"
\- Impact on existing nodes:
\- eNB must be upgraded to support multiple Global eNB IDs per X2 interface;
\- MME: must be upgraded to support multiple Global eNB IDs per S1 interface
\- It was understand that the eNB with more cells need more efforts in
implementation to handling the large number of cells, and has a single point
of failure for the control plane signalling.
\- Impact on specification, existing features and procedures:
\- S1AP: impacts the S1 Setup procedure
\- XAP: impacts the X2 Setup procedure
\- Impact on inter-working with legacy nodes:
\- MME and neighbouring eNBs must be upgraded to understand the new IEs in the
S1/X2 Setup procedures, otherwise the S1/X2 Setup procedures will fail;
\- Impact on signalling:
\- There is a potential reduction of S1 signalling towards the core network
due to fewer inter-eNB handovers
\- Impact on network planning: None
\- Impact on CAPEX/OPEX:
\- The CAPEX/OPEX reduction is unclear.
### 6.3.4 Evaluation on "Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC"
The evaluation on "Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC" refers to Section 5.3.3.3.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Extend maximum number of eNBs in a PLMN
RAN3 has discussed the possible enhancements to extend the maximum number of
eNBs in a PLMN.
\- Solution 1 requires changes in all specifications and nodes using eNB ID
for identification or routing.
\- Solution 2a needs the extra PLMN-ID from the operator and corresponding
configuration for the PLMN.
\- Solution 2b needs the extra PLMN-ID from the operator and corresponding
configuration for the PLMN. The extra PLMN(s) may need to be broadcast in SIB1
\- Solution 3a and 3b impact the definition of Global eNB-ID or ECGI in the
specifications. Some network nodes (e.g., Core network, CBC, and location
system) are impacted.
\- Solution 3c requires changes in some specifications using eNB ID for
identification or routing. Some network nodes (e.g., Core network, CBC, and
location system) are impacted.
The above solutions all have limitation/impacts on deployment and/or
standardization. No clear benefit is shown for any of the solutions. However
the following solutions satisfy the objectives in the Study Item and could be
considered further:
\- Solution 1 "Fixed extension of eNB ID";
\- Solution 3 (a,b,c) "Reusing eNB ID in different geographic areas".
## 7.2 Extend maximum number of cells in an eNB
RAN3 has discussed the possible enhancements to extend the maximum number of
cells in an eNB.
\- Solution 1 does not have standards impacts. The Path Switch procedure is
still required for handovers between cells of the physical eNB when the source
and target belong to different logical eNBs.
\- Solution 2 requires changes in all specifications and nodes using eNB ID
for identification or routing. It impacts specifications in the same way as
solution 1 in chapter 7.1. It has a single point of failure for the control
plane signalling.
\- Solution 3 has standards impacts. The primary impact is that there is no
longer a 1:1 mapping of Global eNB ID to S1/X2 interface instance. There is a
potential reduction of S1 signalling towards the core network, but it has a
single point of failure for the control plane signalling.
\- Solution 4 requires changes in some specifications using eNB ID for
identification or routing. Some network nodes (e.g., Core network, CBC, and
location system) are impacted.
The above solutions all have limitation/impacts on deployment and/or
standardization. No clear benefit is shown for any of the solutions. However,
at least the following solutions satisfy the objectives in the Study Item and
could be considered further:
\- Solution 2 "Fixed extension of Cell bits";
\- Solution 4 "Combined use of eNB-ID and TAC".
#