# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Autonomous network is one of the important topics in 5G network. Complexity of
5G network increases with large number of devices and diversity of services.
Different autonomous mechanisms are introduced by the industry to reduce the
complexity of mobile network and service management. Moving from a manual
operating network to a fully autonomous network requires a stepwise
progression. For each step there are different capability and performance
level of autonomy. Thus the concept of autonomous network levels and
corresponding requirements are introduced to describe and evaluate each level
in details.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the concepts _for autonomous networks,
autonomous network level_ , _and that_ use cases , requirements _and
solutions_ for the levels of autonomous _functions in a 3GPP_ network.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.312: \"Management and orchestration; Intent driven management
services for mobile networks\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.535: \" Management and orchestration; Management Services for
Communication Service Assurance; Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Autonomous Network:** telecommunication system (including management system
and network) with autonomy capabilities which is able to be governed by itself
with minimal to no human intervention.
**Autonomous Network Level:** describes the level of autonomy capabilities in
the autonomous network.
**Network and Service Deployment:** processes of allocation, installation,
configuration, activation and verification of specific network and service.
**Network and Service Maintenance:** processes of monitoring, analysing and
healing of the network and service issues.
**Network and Service Optimization:** processes of monitoring, analysing and
optimizing the network and service performance.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANL Autonomous Network Level
AON Autonomous Network
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Autonomous network concept
The network become complex due to large number of devices and diversity of
services. Different autonomy mechanisms are introduced in the industry to
reduce the complexity of network management and control. The ultimate goal for
autonomous network is to enable telecommunication system (including management
system and network) to be governed by itself with minimal to no human
intervention by utilizing the autonomy mechanisms (including intelligence
mechanism, e.g. AI/ML, and automation mechanism, e.g. rule-based automatic
control, and other mechanisms to enable the autonomous network). Autonomous
network can reduce the operating expenditure (OPEX) associated with the
autonomous management and control of the complexity network and improve the
service experience to enable various vertical industries (e.g. autonomous
vehicle, smart city). Following are concepts related to autonomous network:
\- Autonomous network is telecommunication system (including management system
and network) with autonomy capabilities which is able to be governed by itself
with minimal to no human intervention.
\- Autonomous network level is used to describe the level of autonomy
capabilities in the autonomous network.
\- Self-Organization Network, Management data analytics, Intent driven
management, closed loop SLS assurance are examples of enablers for autonomous
network.
## 4.2 Autonomous network level concept
Different autonomy mechanisms in the telecommunication system may lead to
different capabilities of autonomy and different operation efficiency on
network management and control workflow, and indicates the level of autonomy
of the network. The term Autonomous network level is used to describe the
levels of autonomy capabilities in the autonomous network to improve the
efficiency for network management and control. Participation of the human and
telecommunication system in the network management and control workflow are
different for each level and are important factors to evaluate the autonomous
network levels. For each autonomous network level, some tasks can be performed
by telecommunication system, some performed by human, and some performed by
cooperation of human and telecommunication system. For example, in the highest
autonomous network level, all tasks are performed by telecommunication system.
## 4.3 Dimensions for evaluating autonomous network levels.
### 4.3.1 Introduction
This clause describes the dimensions i.e. scenarios, management scope and
workflow, which can be used for evaluating autonomous network level.
### 4.3.2 Scenarios
The autonomous network can be implemented for different scenarios, the
complexity of autonomous network depends on the detailed scenarios where it is
applied. Also it will be more challenging for the telecommunication system to
achieve the autonomous network for full scenarios than for certain scenarios.
The autonomy capabilities of the scenarios will impact the autonomous network
level for the whole autonomous network.
Following are scenario types categorized by network and service management
process for autonomous network:
\- Network and service planning
\- Network and service deployment
\- Network and service maintenance
\- Network and service optimization
Note: The network and service planning is not addressed in the present
document.
### 4.3.3 Management scope
The autonomy can be implemented in different scopes, the complexity of
autonomous network depends on its applicable scope. For example, it will be
more challenging for the telecommunication system to achieve the autonomous
network on cross domain network layer than domain network layer, because more
autonomy mechanism needs to be introduced for the coordination between
different domains. The autonomy capabilities of the management scope will
impact the autonomous network level for the whole autonomous network.
Following are applicable scopes for autonomous network:
\- Autonomy in NE/NF layer, which means the autonomy mechanisms are executed
in the NE/NF.
\- Autonomy in domain network layer, which means the autonomy mechanisms are
executed in the MnF(s) in domain.
\- Autonomy in cross domain network layer, which means the autonomy mechanisms
are executed in the MnF(s) in cross domain.
\- Autonomy in communication service layer, how to execute the autonomy
mechanisms are executed in MnF(s) for communication service.
_Note: autonomy in communication service layer is not specified in the present
document._
{width="1.7805555555555554in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 4.3.3-1: Autonomy for different management scope
### 4.3.4 Workflow
Workflow is used to describe the necessary steps to achieve certain management
and control purposes. A workflow is composed of one or more management and
control tasks. Each workflow task may be accomplished by human, or
accomplished by telecommunication system with human assistance, or
accomplished by telecommunication system without human intervention. The
autonomy capabilities of the tasks in the workflow may impact the autonomous
network level.
Following are the categorization of the tasks in a workflow:
\- **Intent handling:** The group of tasks which translate network or service
intent from operator or customer into detailed operations and/or control
information which may affect one or more of the following groups of tasks
(i.e. awareness, analysis, decision, execution), also evaluate and feedback
intent fulfilment information (e.g. the intent is satisfied or not) based on
the detailed network and service information. More information of intent
handling see the Intent driven management defined in 28.312[2].
\- **Awareness:** The group of tasks which include network and service data
(e.g. configuration data, performance data, alarm data, etc.) collection and
necessary data pre-processing (e.g. data cleaning, filtering, statistics,
etc.) with the purpose of monitoring network and service information
(including network and service performance, network and service anomaly,
network and service event, etc.). More information of Awareness see
corresponding Monitor of Management control loops defined in 28.535 [3].
\- **Analysis:** The group of tasks which analyse the obtained network and
service information (e.g. network and service status, network and service
issues and so on) or based on the historical network and service information
to further predict the future change trend of the above network and service
status, and make recommendation for decision. More information of Analysis see
corresponding Analytic of Management control loops defined in 28.535 [3].
\- **Decision:** The group of tasks which evaluate and decide the necessary
operation for execution, e.g. network configuration or adjustment. More
information of Decision see corresponding Decision of Management control loops
defined in 28.535 [3].
\- **Execution:** The group of tasks which execute the operations. More
information of Execution see corresponding Execution of Management control
loops defined in 28.535 [3].
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="2.05625in"}
Figure 4.3.4-1: Categorization of the tasks in the workflow for evaluating
autonomous network levels
# 5 Framework approach for evaluating autonomous network levels
A framework approach for evaluating autonomous network levels is as following,
which is used for evaluating the autonomy capability of telecom system. In the
following framework table:
\- \"Human\" represents corresponding tasks are accomplished by human or human
utilizing the tools for network and service management and orchestration.
\- \"Human & System\" represents corresponding tasks are accomplished by
collaboration of human and telecom system, the detailed collaboration pattern
depends on the scenario, which is not addressed in the framework approach for
evaluating autonomous network levels.
\- \"System\" represents corresponding tasks are fully accomplished by telecom
system.
Table 5-1: Framework approach for evaluating autonomous network levels
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Aut | Task | | | | | | | onomous | cat | | | | | | | network | egories | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | Ex | Aw | A | D | Intent | | | | ecution | areness | nalysis | ecision | h | | | | | | | | andling | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L0 | Manual | Human | Human | Human | Human | Human | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L1 | A | Human & | Human & | Human | Human | Human | | | ssisted | Telecom | Telecom | | | | | | op | system | system | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L2 | Prel | Telecom | Human & | Human & | Human | Human | | | iminary | system | Telecom | Telecom | | | | | aut | | system | system | | | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L3 | Inter | Telecom | Telecom | Human & | Human & | Human | | | mediate | system | system | Telecom | Telecom | | | | aut | | | system | system | | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L4 | A | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Human & | | | dvanced | system | system | system | system | Telecom | | | aut | | | | | system | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L5 | Full | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | | | aut | system | system | system | system | system | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | Human | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eviewed | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecision | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | highest | | | | | | | | au | | | | | | | | thority | | | | | | | | in each | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | is any | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | liction | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | human | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eviewed | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecision | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | telecom | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | nerated | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | cision. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | five | | | | | | | | task | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | egories | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | reflect | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | orkflow | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | quence. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**Level 0 manual operating network** : No categorization of the tasks is
accomplished by telecom system itself.
**Level 1 assisted operating network** : A part of the execution and awareness
tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself based on human
defined control information. At this level, telecom system can assist human to
improve the execution and awareness efficiency.
**Level 2 preliminary autonomous network** : All the execution tasks are
accomplished automatically by telecom system itself. A part of the awareness
and analysis tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself
based on human defined control information. At this level, telecom system can
assist human to achieve the closed loop based on human defined control
information.
**Level 3 intermediate autonomous network** : All the execution and awareness
tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself. A part of the
analysis and decision tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system
itself based on human defined control information. At this level, the telecom
system can achieve the closed loop automation based on the human defined
closed loop automation control information.
**Level 4 advanced autonomous network** : All the execution, awareness,
analysis and decision tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system
itself. And intent handling tasks can be partly accomplished automatically by
telecom system itself based on human defined intent handling control
information. At this level, telecom system can achieve the intent driven
closed loop automation based on human defined intent handling control
information, which means the telecom system can translate the intent to the
detailed closed loop automation control information and translate the detailed
network and service information to intent fulfilment information (e.g. the
intent is satisfied or not) based on human defined intent handling control
information.
**Level 5 fully autonomous network** : The entire network autonomy workflow is
accomplished automatically by telecom system without human intervention. At
this level, telecom system can achieve the whole network autonomy.
Note 1: Above framework approach for evaluating autonomous network levels is
applicable for evaluating the autonomous network level from both management
scope and scenario perspective. The overall autonomous network level of the
whole telecom system is a comprehensive reflection of autonomous network level
of the individual management scope and scenarios, which means in fully
autonomous network level, the telecom system can achieve the whole network
autonomy for all management scopes and scenarios.
Note 2: The control information in the present document represents the
information which can be formatted as rules or policies to assist/control the
system to perform corresponding tasks in an autonomous manner.
# 6 Use cases and requirements
## 6.1 Network and service planning scenarios
Note: The Network and service planning scenarios is not addressed in the
present document.
## 6.2 Network and service deployment scenarios
### 6.2.1 Autonomous network level for RAN NE deployment
RAN NE deployment use case refers to the entire workflow of deploying an RAN
NE, full autonomy of RAN NE deployment can help the network operator to reduce
OPEX by reducing manual involvement in such tasks. However, full autonomy of
RAN NE deployment is a long term goal, it will be beneficial for operator to
achieve this goal step by step and have clear view on which typical issues can
be addressed by utilizing network autonomy mechanisms in corresponding steps.
The requirements for each autonomous level for RAN NE deployment are
different.
## 6.3 Network and service maintenance scenarios
### 6.3.1 Autonomous network level for fault management
Fault management use case refers to the entire workflow of network fault
management, autonomy of fault management can help the network operator to
reduce OPEX by reducing manual involvement in such tasks and to enhance user
experience and reduce network and service failure time by reducing the time
for network fault supervision and recovery. However, full autonomy of fault
management is a long term goal, it will be beneficial for operator to achieve
this goal step by step and have clear view on which typical issues can be
addressed by utilizing network autonomy mechanism in corresponding steps. The
requirements for each autonomous level for fault management autonomy are
different.
## 6.4 Network and service optimization scenarios
### 6.4.1 Autonomous network level for radio network coverage optimization
Radio networks are geographically distributed, and mobile user activity varies
significantly in different places and at different times of day. To achieve
the optimal coverage, a set of initial coverage configuration parameters (e.g.
coverageShape, digitalTilt and digitalAzimuth) may not always meet the
requirements. Therefore, the coverage configuration parameters need to be
adjusted in a differentiated manner with the change of the radio network
environment. It is complex for the adjustment due to multiple factors needs to
be considered, e.g. interference control, huge data and frequent traffic
changes. So introducing the autonomous network level for radio network
coverage optimization will benefit for operator to achieve the full autonomy
goal step by step and have clear view on which typical issues can be addressed
by utilizing autonomy mechanism in corresponding steps. The requirements for
each autonomous level for radio network coverage optimization are different.
### 6.4.2 Autonomous network level for RAN UE throughput optimization
RAN UE throughput is a key performance for radio network, and, numerous radio
feature parameters with broad value ranges affect the RAN UE throughput. There
are many radio feature parameters of RAN NE level or cell level, for examples,
MLB related parameters, resource schedule related parameters, cell reselection
related parameters, handover related parameters, different radio feature
parameters affect each other and the combination number of various parameter
values is large. Therefore, it is complex to adjust radio feature
configuration parameters to achieve the optimized RAN UE throughput. So
introducing the autonomous network level for RAN UE throughput optimization
will be benefit for operator to achieve the full autonomy goal step by step
and have clear view on which typical issues can be addressed by utilizing
autonomy mechanism in corresponding steps. The requirements for each
autonomous level for RAN UE throughput optimization are different.
# 7 Generic autonomous network level
## 7.1 Generic autonomous network level for network optimization
### 7.1.1 Generic workflow
Following is the generic entire workflow for the network optimization:
**Intent handling:**
\- **Task A** : Network optimization control information generation and
determination. The tasks of generating and determining the network
optimization related control information (e.g., control information for
network issue identification, network issue analysis and network parameters
adjustment) based on received network optimization intent (e.g. network
targets for the specified areas).
\- **Task B** : Network optimization intent fulfilment evaluation. The tasks
of evaluating network optimization intent fulfilment information (e.g.
corresponding network targets are satisfied or not).
**Awareness:**
\- **Task C** : Network related information collection. The tasks of
collecting network related data, including network performance data (i.e.
performance measurement, MDT data), network configuration data and environment
data (e.g. electronic map)).
**Analysis:**
\- **Task D** : Network issues identification. The tasks of analysing the
network performance (e.g. geographical grid based network performance) and
identifying whether there are network issues (e.g. coverage related issues,
RAN UE throughput related issues).
\- **Task E** : Network deterioration prediction. The tasks of analysing
current network performance and historical network performance, predicting the
network performance trend in the future and identifying potential network
performance deterioration in advance.
\- **Task F** : Network issue demarcation. The tasks of analyse the network
issue and determine the network issue categories (e.g. weak coverage, high
load, low throughput).
\- **Task G** : Network issue root cause analysis. The tasks of analysing the
root cause (i.e. the location for the issue occurs and the cause for the
issue) of the identified or predicted network issues.
\- **Task H** : Network adjustment solutions analysis. The tasks of generating
the recommended network adjustment solution which can address the identified
or predicted network issues.
**Decision:**
\- **Task I** : Network adjustment solutions evaluation and determination. The
tasks of evaluating the recommended network adjustment solutions, and deciding
the network adjustment solutions to be executed.
**Execution:**
\- **Task J** : Network adjustment solutions execution. The tasks of adjusting
and configuring the network configuration parameters.
### 7.1.2 Generic classification of autonomous network level
**Level 0:**
\- All the tasks in the network optimization workflow (Task A, Task B, Task C,
Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I, Task J) are accomplished by
human.
**Level 1:**
\- Telecom system executes the tasks of network adjustment solutions execution
based on the specified network related parameters (Task J). Telecom system
also can execute the tasks of collecting part of network related information
(including performance metrics, configuration data, MDT data) based on the
specified collection control information (Task C). At this level, telecom
system can assist human to improve the execution and awareness efficiency for
network optimization.
\- All the other tasks in the network optimization workflow (Task A, Task B,
Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I) are accomplished by human.
**Level 2:**
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
network issues identification, network issue demarcation and network issue
root cause analysis based on the specified network issue identification and
analysis control information (Task D, Task F，Task G). In this level, telecom
system also can execute the task of collecting all network related information
(including network performance data, network configuration data and
environment data) based on the specified collection control information(Task
C),The tasks of network adjustment solutions execution (Task I) are fully
accomplished by telecom system. At this level, telecom system can assist human
to achieve the closed loop for network optimization based on human defined
control information.
\- All the other tasks in the network optimization workflow (Task A, Task B,
Task E, Task H, Task I) are accomplished by human.
**Level 3:**
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
network adjustment solutions analysis (Task H) and network adjustment
solutions evaluation and determination (Task I) based on the specified network
adjustment control information and evaluation control information. In this
level, telecom system also can execute the tasks of network deterioration
prediction (Task E) based on the specified network deterioration prediction
control information. The tasks of network related information collection (Task
C), network issues identification (Task D) and network issue demarcation (Task
F) are fully accomplished by telecom system. At this level, the telecom system
can achieve the closed loop automation for network optimization based on the
human defined optimization control information.
\- All the other tasks in the network optimization workflow (Task A, Task B)
are accomplished by human.
**Level 4:**
\- Compared to Level 3, the telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
network optimization control information determination (Task A), and network
optimization intent evaluation (Task B) based on received network optimization
intent and intent translation/evaluation control information. The tasks of
network issue root cause analysis (Task G), network adjustment solutions
analysis (Task H), network adjustment solutions evaluation and determination
(Task I), and network deterioration prediction (Task E) are fully accomplished
by telecom system. At this level, telecom system can achieve the intent driven
closed loop automation for network optimization based on human defined intent
translation and evaluation control information.
\- The intent translation and evaluation control information maybe pre-defined
and specified by human to assist the telecom system.
**Level 5:**
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of radio
network optimization for all scenarios, which means the telecom system can
achieve the full autonomy for network optimization for full scenarios.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.8409722222222222in"}
Figure 7.1.2-1 Classification of generic autonomous network level for network
optimization
### 7.1.3 Generic autonomy capability description for management system
**Level 1 for Network Optimization:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Adjust network based on the specified network adjustment solution.
\- Collect network related information (including network performance data,
network configuration data and environment data) based on specified collection
control information.
**Level 2 for Network Optimization:** The 3GPP management system has following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Identify the network issue based on the specified network issue
identification control information.
\- Demarcate the network issue (including network issue categories based on
the specified network issue demarcation control information.
\- Analyse the root cause of network issue based on the specified network
issue analysis control information.
**Level 3 for Network Optimization:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Analyse and generate the recommended network adjustment solutions based on
specified network adjustment control information.
\- Evaluate the recommended network adjustment solutions and determine the
network adjustment solutions to be executed based on specified network
adjustment decision control information.
\- Predict network performance deterioration.
**Level 4 for Network Optimization:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Determine or update network optimization policies according to network
optimization intent based on specified intent translation control information.
\- Evaluate network optimization intent fulfilment result based on specified
intent evaluation control information.
**Level 5 for Network Optimization:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Generate the network optimization intent translation and evaluation control
information.
### 7.1.4 Generic MnS requirements
##### 7.1.4.1 MnS requirements to support autonomous network level 1
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_1-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network adjustment
solution.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_1-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network related
information collection control information.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_1-MnS-3** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the network related
information (including network performance data, network configuration data
and environment data).
##### 7.1.4.2 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
2
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_2-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network issue
identification control information.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_2-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the network issue.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_2-MnS-3** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network issue
demarcation control information.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_2-MnS-4** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the network issue
demarcation result.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_2-MnS-5** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network issue root
cause analysis control information.
##### 7.1.4.3 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
3
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_3-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network adjustment
analytic control information.
**REQ-ANL-NetOpt-Level_3-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network adjustment
decision control information.
##### 7.1.4.4 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
4
The additional MnS requirements for level 4 are not specified in the present
document.
### 7.1.5 Solutions for generic MnS requirements
**Table 7.1.5-1: Solutions for generic MnS requirements of autonomous network
level for network optimization**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Autonomous Network |** Requirements**|** Corresponding | | Level**| | solutions** | | | **(Defined in Clause | | | | 7.1.4)** | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Level 1** | **REQ-ANL-Net | This is implemented | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-1** | by provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541[5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This is implemented | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-2** | by provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with PM | | | | control NRM fragment | | | | and Trace control | | | | NRM fragment defined | | | | in TS 28.622 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This is implemented | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-3** | by file data | | | | reporting MnS and | | | | streaming data | | | | report MnS defined | | | | in TS 28.532 [4] | | | | with measurements | | | | defined in TS 28.552 | | | | [7], KPI defined | | | | in TS 28.554[8], | | | | MDT data defined in | | | | TS 32.422 [9]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level2** | **REQ-ANL-Net | For the network | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-1** | issues which can be | | | | detected based on | | | | threshold, this can | | | | be implemented by | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] with | | | | Threshold monitoring | | | | control NRM fragment | | | | defined in TS 28.622 | | | | [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | For the network | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-2** | issues which can be | | | | detected based on | | | | threshold, this can | | | | be implemented by | | | | not | | | | ifyThresholdCrossing | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | For the network | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-3** | issues which can be | | | | detected based on | | | | threshold,this can | | | | be implemented by | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with Threshold | | | | monitoring control | | | | NRM fragment defined | | | | in TS 28.622 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | For the network | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-4** | issues which can be | | | | detected based on | | | | threshold, this can | | | | be implemented by | | | | not | | | | ifyThresholdCrossing | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-5** | implemented by using | | | | generic | | | | proivisioning MnS | | | | (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | network issue root | | | | cause analysis | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level3** | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_3-MnS-1** | implemented by using | | | | generic | | | | proivisioning MnS | | | | (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | network adjustment | | | | analytic control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_3-MnS-2** | implemented by using | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | network adjustment | | | | decision control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.2 Generic autonomous network level for RAN NE deployment
### 7.2.1 Generic workflow
Following are the entire workflow for RAN NE deployment:
**Intent handling:**
\- **Task A** : RAN NE deployment control information generation based on
received RAN NE deployment intent. The tasks of generating and determining the
RAN NE deployment related control information (e.g. control information for
RAN NE configuration data generation, RAN NE commissioning, RAN NE dialing
test).
\- **Task B** : RAN NE deployment intent evaluation, the tasks of evaluating
RAN NE deployment fulfilment information (e.g. satisfied or not).
**Awareness:**
\- **Task C** : RAN NE information collection, the tasks of collecting the RAN
NE information (e.g., IP address, hardware information).
**Analysis:**
\- **Task D** : RAN NE configuration data analysis, the tasks of analysing and
generating the recommended network configuration data for the RAN NE based on
the network planning data for the RAN NE and hardware information collected.
\- **Task E** : RAN NE commissioning test, the tasks of performing the RAN NE
commissioning test to put RAN NE into service (e.g. ensure the software and
configuration (including radio configuration and transport configuration) is
correct, and alarms are cleared).
\- **Task F** : RAN NE dialing test, the tasks of performing the RAN NE
dialing test to check whether RAN NE services are normal by testing whether
the communication can be established between two subscribers.
**Decision:**
**\- Task G:** RAN NE configuration data determination, the tasks of
evaluating and determining the RAN NE configuration data to be download and
activated.
**Execution:**
\- **Task H** : RAN NE configuration data and software download and
activation, the tasks of downloading and activating network configuration data
and software in RAN NE.
### 7.2.2 Generic autonomous network level
**Level 0:**
\- All the tasks in the RAN NE deployment workflow (Task A, Task B, Task C,
Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H) are accomplished by human.
**Level 1:**
\- Telecom system executes tasks of downloading and activating the available
RAN NE network configuration data and software prepared by human (Task H) and
tasks of collecting part of RAN NE information (including IP address) based on
specified collection control information(Task C).
\- All the other tasks in the RAN NE deployment workflow (Task A, Task B, Task
C, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G) are accomplished by human.
**Level 2:**
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
collecting RAN NE information (including hardware information) (Task C).
Telecom system also can execute the tasks of analysing the network
configuration data for the RAN NE based on the network configuration data
generation control information (e.g. configuration template) specified by
human(Task D). The tasks of RAN NE configuration data and software download
and activation (Task H) are fully accomplished by telecom system.
\- All the other tasks in the RAN NE deployment workflow (Task A, Task B, Task
E, Task F, Task G) are accomplished by human.
**Level 3** :
\- Compared to Level 2, the telecom system additionally executes tasks of
analysing and determining the network configuration data for the RAN NE based
on the network configuration data generation control information specified by
human (Task D, Task G). Telecom system also can executes tasks of performing
the RAN NE commissioning test based on commissioning control information
specified by human (Task E), and tasks of performing the RAN NE dialing test
based on dialing test control information specified by human(Task F). The
tasks of RAN NE information collection (Task C) are fully accomplished by
telecom system.
\- All the other tasks in the RAN NE deployment workflow (Task A, Task B) are
accomplished by human.
**Level 4:**
\- Compared to Level 3, the telecom system can additionally execute the tasks
of RAN NE deployment control information generation (Task A) and RAN NE
deployment intent evaluation (Task B) based on intent handling control
information specified by human. The tasks of RAN NE configuration data
analysis (Task D), RAN NE configuration data determination (G), RAN NE
commissioning test (Task E) and RAN NE dialing test (Task F) are fully
accomplished by telecom system.
\- The intent handling control information maybe pre-defined and specified by
human.
**Level 5:**
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of RAN NE
deployment for all scenarios,
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="3.3722222222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.2-1 Classification of autonomous network level for RAN NE
deployment
### 7.2.3 Generic autonomy capability description for management system
**Level 1 for RAN NE deployment:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Download and activate the specified RAN NE network configuration data and
software.
\- Collect RAN NE information based on the specified RAN NE information
collection control information.
**Level 2 for RAN NE deployment:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Analyse the network configuration data for the RAN NE based on the
specified network configuration data generation control information.
**Level 3 for** **RAN NE deployment** : The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Analyse and determine the network configuration data for the RAN NE based
on the specified network configuration data generation control information.
\- Perform the RAN NE commissioning test based on specified commissioning test
control information.
**-** Perform the RAN NE dialing test based on specified dialing test control
information.
**Level 4 for RAN NE deployment:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Determine or update RAN NE deployment control information according to RAN
NE deployment intent based on specified intent translation control
information.
**-** Evaluate RAN NE deployment intent fulfilment result based on specified
intent evaluation control information.
**Level 5 for RAN NE deployment:** The 3GPP management system has the
following autonomy capabilities:
\- Generate the RAN NE deployment intent translation and evaluation control
information.
### 7.2.4 Generic MnS requirements
##### 7.2.4.1 MnS requirements to support autonomous network level 1
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_1-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the RAN NE network
configuration data and software.
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_1-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the RAN NE
information collection control information.
##### 7.2.4.2 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
2
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_2-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network
configuration data generation control information.
##### 7.2.4.3 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
3
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_3-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the network
configuration data generation control information.
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_3-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the commissioning
test control information.
**REQ-ANL-RanNeDeploy-Level_3-MnS-3** The 3GPP management system shall have
the capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the dialing test
control information.
##### 7.2.4.4 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
4
The additional MnS requirements for level 4 are not specified in the present
document.
### 7.2.5 Solutions for generic MnS requirements
Table 7.2.5-1: Solutions for generic MnS requirements of autonomous network
level for RAN NE deployment
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Autonomous Network | Requirements | Corresponding | | Level | | solutions | | | (Defined in Clause | | | | 7.1.4) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Level 1** | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This is implemented | | | loy-Level_1-MnS-1** | by provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541 [5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This is implemented | | | loy-Level_1-MnS-2** | by provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541 [5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level2** | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This can be | | | loy-Level_2-MnS-1** | implemented by | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | (e.g. createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | network | | | | configuration data | | | | generation control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level3** | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This can be | | | loy-Level_3-MnS-1** | implemented by using | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] to | | | | specify the network | | | | configuration data | | | | generation control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This can be | | | loy-Level_3-MnS-2** | implemented by using | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] to | | | | specify the | | | | commissioning test | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-RanNeDep | This can be | | | loy-Level_3-MnS-3** | implemented by using | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.5326 [4] to | | | | specify the dialing | | | | test control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.3 Generic autonomous network level for fault management
### 7.3.1 Generic workflow
Following is the generic workflow for fault management:
**Intent handling:**
\- **Task A:** Fault management control information generation. The group of
tasks of generating the fault management related control information (e.g.,
control information for alarm filtering, fault recognition, root cause
analysis, fault recovery) based on fault management intent (e.g. reduce fault
recovery response time to a certain value, reduce network and service failure
times to a certain value within a specific duration).
\- **Task B:** Fault management intent fulfilment evaluation. The group of
tasks of evaluating fault management intent fulfilment information (e.g.
corresponding fault recovery response time is satisfied or not).
**Awareness:**
> \- **Task C:** Fault related information collection. The group of tasks
> which collect the alarm information and other fault related information
> (e.g. performance information and configuration information etc.).
\- **Task D:** Alarm filtering. The group of tasks which filter the alarms
collected in Task C based on the specified alarm filtering control
information. A single network fault may generate a large number of correlative
alarms over space and time, therefore it is considered advantageous to have
methods filtering the redundant alarms. Reporting only effective alarms
without redundant alarms would improve the efficiency of alarm management.
**Analysis:**
\- **Task E:** Fault recognition. The group of tasks which recognize the fault
based on the alarm information and other fault related information.
\- **Task F:** Fault prediction. The group of tasks which predict the
potential fault and its category based on the performance information and
other fault related information.
\- **Task G** : Fault demarcation. The group of tasks which analysis and
determines the fault type and corresponding affected managed object (e.g. NE)
based on the alarm information and other fault related information.
\- **Task H:** Fault root cause analysis (RCA). The group of tasks which
analyse the detailed root cause of the network and service failure.
\- **Task I:** Fault recovery mechanism analysis. The group of tasks which
analyse the possible fault recovery mechanisms based on the fault root cause,
thereby generate the feasible options (e.g. recommended recovery solutions).
**Decision:**
\- **Task J:** Fault management action evaluation and determination. The group
of tasks which evaluate the feasible options and determine the fault recovery
solutions and other corresponding actions (e.g. clear of alarms, storage and
retrieval of alarms).
**Execution:**
\- **Task K:** Fault management action execution. The group of tasks which
execute the fault recovery actions and other corresponding actions.
Note: If the faulty resource has no redundancy (e.g. backup
equipment/board/battery/transport link) and all the fall back recovery actions
are not available nor effective, then the subsequent fault recovery actions
(e.g. replace physical equipment/board/battery, repair the physical
connector/fibre/cable, repair the power supply, etc.) are considered as beyond
the capabilities of the telecom system. And those actions execution is
excluded from the consideration of autonomous network level classification.
### 7.3.2 Generic autonomous network level
Level 0:
\- All the tasks in the fault management workflow (Task A, Task B, Task C,
Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I, Task J, Task K) are
accomplished by human.
Level 1:
\- Telecom system executes the tasks of fault related information collection
to collect part of fault related information (including alarm information,
performance metric, configuration data) (Task C) automatically based on
predefined data collection control information, and the tasks of fault
management action execution (Task K) based on specified fault recovery control
information. Telecom system can also execute the tasks of alarm filtering
(Task D) based on specified alarm filtering control information.
\- All the other tasks in the fault management workflow (Task A, Task B, Task
E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I, Task J) are accomplished by human.
Level 2:
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system can additionally executes the tasks of
fault recognition (Task E) and fault demarcation (Task G) based on specified
fault recognition and demarcation control information. In this level, telecom
system can collect all fault related information (including environment data)
based on specified data collection control information (Task C).The tasks of
fault management action execution (Task J) is fully accomplished by telecom
system.
\- All the other tasks (Task A, Task B, Task F, Task H, Task I, Task J) are
accomplished by human.
Level 3:
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system can additionally execute the tasks of
fault root cause analysis based on specified fault root cause analysis control
information (Task H). For certain network faults, telecom system can also
additionally execute the tasks of fault prediction (Task F), fault recovery
mechanism analysis (Task H) and action evaluation and determination(Task I)
based on specified fault management control information (i.e. control
information for fault prediction, fault recovery mechanism analysis, fault
recovery mechanism decision). The tasks of fault related information
collection (Task C),alarm filtering (Task D), fault recognition (Task E) and
fault demarcation (Task G) are fully accomplished by telecom system.
\- All the other tasks (Task A, Task B) are accomplished by human.
Level 4:
\- Compared to Level 3, for certain scenario, telecom system additionally
execute the tasks of fault management control information generation (Task A)
and fault management intent fulfilment information evaluation (Task B) based
on specified intent handling control information. The tasks of fault
prediction (Task F), fault root cause analysis (Task H), fault recovery
mechanism analysis (Task I) and action generation (Task J) are accomplished
automatically by telecom system without human intervention.
\- Intent handling control information can be pre-defined and specified by
human.
Level 5:
\- The entire fault management workflows is accomplished by telecom system
without human intervention and human predefined control information.
\- Human can optionally supervise the fault management action generated by
telecom system.
{width="6.6819444444444445in" height="3.0590277777777777in"}
**Figure 7.3.2-1: Generic classification of autonomous network level for fault
management**
### 7.3.3 Generic autonomy capability description for management system
**Level 1 for Fault Management:** The 3GPP management system has the following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Execute the network recovery actions (including reset the
hardware/software, switch to the backup hardware, rollback to the backup
software/firmware) with corresponding network elements based on the specified
fault recovery control information.
\- Obtain fault related data (including alarms, events, signaling data,
performance data, configuration data and environment data) based on specified
collection control information.
\- Filter the alarms based on the specified filtering control information.
**Level 2 for Fault Management:** The 3GPP management system has the following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Identify the fault based on specified fault recognition control
information.
\- Demarcate the fault type and corresponding affected managed object (e.g.
NE) based on specified fault demarcation control information.
**Level 3 for Fault Management:** The 3GPP management system has the following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Analyse the root cause of the network fault based on specified fault root
cause analysis control information.
\- Analyse and generate the recommended fault recovery mechanism and determine
the fault recover actions to be executed based on specified fault recovery
mechanism analysis and decision control information.
\- Predict the potential fault.
**Level 4 for Fault Management:** The 3GPP management system has the following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Generate or update fault management control information according to fault
management intent based on specified intent translation control information.
\- Evaluate fault management intent fulfilment based on specified intent
evaluation control information.
**Level 5 for Fault Management:** The 3GPP management system has the following
autonomy capabilities:
\- Generate the fault management intent translation and evaluation control
information.
### 7.3.4 Generic MnS requirements
##### 7.3.4.1 MnS Requirements to support autonomous network level 1
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_1-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault recovery
control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_1-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault related data
collection control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_1-MnS-3** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the alarm filtering
control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_1-MnS-4** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain fault related data
(including alarms, events, signaling data, performance data, configuration
data and environment data).
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_1-MnS-5** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the filtered alarm data.
##### 7.3.4.2 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
2
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_2-MnS-1**. The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault recognition
control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_2-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the recognized fault
information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_2-MnS-3**. The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault demarcation
control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_2-MnS-4** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the fault demarcation
information (including fault type and corresponding affected managed object
e.g. NE).
##### 7.3.4.3 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
3
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault root cause
analysis control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault recovery
mechanism analysis control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-3** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to specify the fault recovery
mechanism decision control information.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-4** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the root cause of the
network fault.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-5** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the recommended fault
recovery mechanism.
**REQ-ANL-FM-Level_3-MnS-6** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability allowing its authorized consumer to obtain the potential fault
prediction information.
##### 7.3.4.4 Additional MnS requirements to support autonomous network level
4
The additional MnS requirements for level 4 are not specified in the present
document.
### 7.3.5 Solutions for generic MnS requirements
Table 7.3.5-1: Solutions for generic MnS requirements of autonomous network
level for fault management
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Autonomous Network | Requirements | Corresponding | | Level | | solutions | | | (Defined in Clause | | | | 7.1.4) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Level 1** | **REQ-ANL | This is implemented | | | -FM-Level_1-MnS-1** | by fault supervision | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4], and | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541 [5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This is implemented | | | -FM-Level_1-MnS-2** | by fault supervision | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4], | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541 [5], PM | | | | control NRM fragment | | | | and Trace control | | | | NRM fragment define | | | | in TS 28.622 [6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_1-MnS-3** | implemented by | | | | utilizing fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | (e.g. getAlarmList) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | alarm filtering | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This is implemented | | | -FM-Level_1-MnS-4** | by fault supervision | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4], | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] with 5G | | | | Network Resource | | | | model defined in TS | | | | 28.541 [5], | | | | streaming data | | | | reporting MnS and | | | | File data reporting | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_1-MnS-5** | implemented by | | | | utilizing fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | (e.g. getAlarmList, | | | | notifyNewAlarm) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to obtain the | | | | filtered alarm data. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level2** | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_2-MnS-1** | implemented by | | | | utilizing generic | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | fault recognition | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_2-MnS-2** | implemented by | | | | utilizing fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | (e.g. getAlarmList, | | | | notifyNewAlarm) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to obtain the | | | | recognized fault | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_2-MnS-3** | implemented by | | | | utilizing generic | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | fault demarcation | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_2-MnS-4** | implemented by Fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to obtain the | | | | fault demarcation | | | | information | | | | (including fault | | | | type and | | | | corresponding | | | | affected managed | | | | object). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level3** | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-1** | implemented by | | | | utilizing generic | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | fault root cause | | | | analysis control | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-2** | implemented by | | | | utilizing generic | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | fault recovery | | | | mechanism analysis | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-3** | implemented by | | | | utilizing generic | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | defined in 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | fault recovery | | | | mechanism decision | | | | control information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-4** | implemented by Fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | (e.g. getAlarmList, | | | | notifyNewAlarm) | | | | defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] to | | | | obtain the root | | | | cause of the network | | | | fault. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-5** | implemented by Fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | (e.g. getAlarmList, | | | | notifyNewAlarm) | | | | defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] to | | | | obtain the | | | | recommended fault | | | | recovery mechanism. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL | This can be | | | -FM-Level_3-MnS-6** | implemented by MDA | | | | MnS (i.e. | | | | MDAAs | | | | sistedFaultManagemen | | | | t.FailurePrediction) | | | | defined in TS | | | | 28.104 [6] to | | | | obtain the potential | | | | fault prediction | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples of Autonomous network level for
network and service optimization
## A.1 Autonomous network level for radio network coverage optimization
### A.1.1 Workflow
Following are the entire workflow for the radio network coverage optimization:
**Intent handling:**
\- **Task A** : Coverage optimization policies generation and determination.
The tasks of generating and determining the coverage optimization related
policies (e.g. weak coverage issue identification policies, weak coverage
analysis policies and coverage parameters adjustment policies) based on
received coverage optimization intent (e.g. coverage targets (e.g. weak
coverage ratio) for the specified areas).
\- **Task B** : Coverage optimization intent evaluation. The tasks of
evaluating coverage optimization intent fulfilment information (e.g.
corresponding coverage targets are satisfied or not).
**Awareness:**
\- **Task C** : Coverage related information collection. The tasks of
collecting coverage related data, including coverage performance data (i.e.
performance measurement, MDT data), coverage configuration data (e.g.
coverageShape, digitalTilt and digitalAzimuth) and environment data (e.g.
electronic map)).
**Analysis:**
\- **Task D** : Coverage issues identification. The tasks of analysing the
coverage performance (e.g. geographical grid based coverage performance) and
identifying the coverage issues.
\- **Task E** : Coverage deterioration prediction. The tasks of analysing
current coverage performance and historical coverage performance, predicting
the coverage performance trend in the future and identifying potential
coverage performance deterioration in advance.
**\- Task F** : Coverage issues demarcation. The tasks of analysing the
coverage issues and determining the coverage categories (e.g. weak coverage,
coverage hole, overshoot coverage).
\- **Task G** : Coverage issue root cause analysis. The tasks of analysing the
root cause (e.g. Inappropriate NRSectorCarrier parameters) of the identified
or predicted coverage issues.
\- **Task H** : Coverage adjustment solutions analysis. The tasks of
generating the recommended coverage adjustment solution which can address the
identified or predicted coverage issues.
**Decision:**
\- **Task I** : Coverage adjustment solutions evaluation and determination.
The tasks of evaluating the recommended coverage adjustment solutions, and
deciding the coverage adjustment solutions to be executed.
**Execution:**
\- **Task J** : Coverage adjustment solutions execution. The tasks of
adjusting and configuring the coverage related parameters (e.g. selection of
coverageShape, digitalTilt and digitalAzimuth).
### A.1.2 Classification of autonomous network level
**Level 0:**
\- All the tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow (Task A,
Task B, Task C, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I, Task J) are
accomplished by human.
**Level 1:**
\- Telecom system executes the tasks of coverage adjustment solutions
execution based on the specified coverage related parameters (Task J). Telecom
system also can execute the tasks of coverage related information collection
based on the specified collection rule (Task C). At this level, telecom system
can assist human to improve the execution and awareness efficiency for radio
network coverage optimization.
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I) are
accomplished by human.
**Level 2:**
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
coverage issues identification, coverage issues demarcation and coverage issue
root cause analysis based on the specified coverage issue identification and
analysis rule (Task D, Task F, Task G). The tasks of coverage adjustment
solutions execution (Task J) is fully accomplished by telecom system. At this
level, telecom system can assist human to achieve the closed loop for radio
network coverage optimization based on human defined rules.
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B, Task E, Task H, Task I) are accomplished by human.
**Level 3:**
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
coverage adjustment solutions analysis (Task H) and coverage adjustment
solutions evaluation and determination (Task I) based on the specified
coverage adjustment policies and evaluation policies. In this level, telecom
system also can execute the tasks of coverage deterioration prediction (Task
E) based on the specified deterioration prediction policies. The tasks of
coverage related information collection (Task C), coverage issues
identification (Task D) and coverage issues demarcation (Task F) are fully
accomplished by telecom system. At this level, the telecom system can achieve
the closed loop automation for coverage optimization based on the human
defined optimization policies.
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B) are accomplished by human.
**Level 4:**
\- Compared to Level 3, the telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
coverage optimization policies determination (Task A), and coverage
optimization intent evaluation (Task B) based on received coverage
optimization intent and intent translation/evaluation policies. The tasks of
coverage issue root cause analysis (Task G), coverage adjustment solutions
analysis (Task H), coverage adjustment solutions evaluation and determination
(Task I) and coverage deterioration prediction (Task E) are fully accomplished
by telecom system. At this level, telecom system can achieve the intent driven
closed loop automation for radio network coverage optimization based on human
defined intent translation and evaluation policies
\- The intent translation and evaluation policies maybe pre-defined and
specified by human to assist the telecom system.
**Level 5:**
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of radio
network coverage optimization for all scenarios, which means the telecom
system can achieve the full autonomy for radio network coverage optimization
for full scenarios.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="3.1680555555555556in"}
Figure A.1.2-1: Classification of autonomous network level for coverage
optimization
### A.1.3 Example of mapping autonomous network level requirements for
coverage optimization with functional/interface features.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Autonomous Network | Requirements | Potential | | Level (ANL) | | implementation | | | (Defined in Clause | | | | 7.1.4) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Level 1** | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-1** | implemented by | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] with | | | | Commo | | | | nBeamformingFunction | | | | IOC defined in TS | | | | 28.541[5]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-2** | implemented by | | | | generic performance | | | | assurance MnS | | | | (defined in TS | | | | 28.532[4]) with | | | | PerfMetricJob IOC | | | | defined in TS | | | | 28.622[6] and | | | | TraceJob IOC defined | | | | in TS 28.622[6]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_1-MnS-3** | implemented by | | | | streaming data | | | | reporting MnS and | | | | file data reporting | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532[4] with | | | | coverage related | | | | data (including | | | | SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, | | | | SS-SINR, RRC | | | | connection setup | | | | success (or failure) | | | | rate, handover | | | | failures) defined in | | | | TS 28.552 [7]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level 2** | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-1** | implemented by | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] with | | | | ThresholdMonitor IOC | | | | defined in TS 28.622 | | | | [6] to specify the | | | | SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, | | | | SS-SINR and handover | | | | failures threshold | | | | for coverage issues. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-2** | implemented by | | | | not | | | | ifyThresholdCrossing | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to notify | | | | SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, | | | | SS-SINR and handover | | | | failures threshold | | | | crossing for | | | | coverage issues. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-3** | implemented by | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS defined in TS | | | | 28.532 [4] with | | | | ThresholdMonitor IOC | | | | defined in TS 28.622 | | | | [6] to specify the | | | | SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, | | | | SS-SINR and handover | | | | failures threshold | | | | for coverage hole | | | | issue and weak | | | | coverage issue. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-4** | implemented by | | | | not | | | | ifyThresholdCrossing | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to notify | | | | SS-RSRP, SS-RSRQ, | | | | SS-SINR and handover | | | | failures threshold | | | | crossing for | | | | coverage hole issue | | | | and weak coverage | | | | issue. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_2-MnS-5** | implemented by using | | | | generic | | | | proivisioning MnS | | | | (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | coverage issue root | | | | cause analysis | | | | policies. The | | | | detailed coverage | | | | adjustment analytic | | | | policies is not | | | | specified in the | | | | present document. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Level 3** | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_3-MnS-1** | implemented by using | | | | generic | | | | proivisioning MnS | | | | (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | coverage adjustment | | | | analytic policies. | | | | The detailed | | | | coverage adjustment | | | | analytic policies is | | | | not specified in the | | | | present document. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | **REQ-ANL-Net | This can be | | | Opt-Level_3-MnS-3** | implemented by using | | | | generic provisioning | | | | MnS (e.g, createMOI) | | | | defined in TS 28.532 | | | | [4] to specify the | | | | coverage adjustment | | | | decision policies. | | | | The detailed | | | | coverage adjustment | | | | decision policies is | | | | not specified in the | | | | present document. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## A.2 Autonomous network level for RAN UE throughput optimization
### A.2.1 Workflow
Following are the entire workflow for the RAN UE throughput optimization:
**Intent handling:**
\- **Task A:** RAN UE throughput optimization policies generation and
determination. The tasks of generating and determining the RAN UE throughput
optimization related policies (e.g. RAN UE throughput issue identification
policies, RAN UE throughput analysis policies and RAN UE throughput parameters
adjustment policies) based on received RAN UE throughput optimization intent
(e.g. RAN UE throughput targets (e.g. low RAN UE throughput ratio, target
average RAN UE throughput) for the specified areas).
\- **Task B:** RAN UE throughput optimization intent fulfilment evaluation.
The tasks of evaluating RAN UE throughput optimization intent fulfilment
information (e.g. corresponding RAN UE throughput targets are satisfied or
not).
**Awareness:**
\- **Task C:** RAN UE throughput related information collection. The tasks of
collecting RAN UE throughput related data, including RAN UE throughput
performance data (e.g. Average UL/ DL UE throughput in gNB, Distribution of
UL/DL UE throughput in gNB), RAN UE throughput configuration data (e.g.
cellIndividualOffset, isHOAllowed and isMLBAllowed of corresponding
NRCellRelation(s) and environment data (e.g. electronic map)).
**Analysis:**
\- **Task D:** RAN UE throughput issues identification. The tasks of analysing
the RAN UE throughput performance (e.g. geographical grid based RAN UE
throughput performance) and identifying the RAN UE throughput issues.
\- **Task E:** RAN UE throughput deterioration prediction. The tasks of
analysing current RAN UE performance and historical RAN UE throughput
performance, predicting the RAN UE throughput performance trend in the future
and identifying potential RAN UE throughput performance deterioration in
advance.
**\- Task F:** RAN UE throughput issues demarcation. The tasks of analysing
the RAN UE throughput issues (e.g. low average RAN UE throughput, large number
of UEs with low RAN UE throughput).
\- **Task G:** RAN UE throughput issues root cause analysis. The tasks of
analysing the root cause (e.g. unbalanced load between different cells,
frequently handover among several cells) of the identified or predicted RAN UE
throughput issues.
\- **Task H:** RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions analysis. The tasks of
generating the recommended RAN UE throughput adjustment solution (e.g.
reconfigure the NRCellRelation IOC and DMROFunction IOC of corresponding RAN
NEs) which can address the identified or predicted RAN UE throughput issues.
**Decision:**
\- **Task I:** RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions evaluation and
determination. The tasks of evaluating the recommended RAN UE throughput
adjustment solutions, and deciding the RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions
to be executed.
**Execution:**
\- **Task J:** RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions execution. The tasks of
adjusting and configuring the RAN UE throughput related parameters (e.g.
cellIndividualOffset, isHOAllowed and isMLBAllowed of corresponding
NRCellRelation(s), maximumDeviationHoTrigger of corresponding DMROFunction).
### A.2.2 Classification of autonomous network level
**Level 0:**
\- All the tasks in the RAN UE throughput optimization workflow (Task A, Task
B, Task C, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I, Task J) are
accomplished by human.
**Level 1:**
\- Telecom system executes the tasks of RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions
execution based on the specified RAN UE throughput related parameters (Task
J). Telecom system also can execute the tasks of RAN UE throughput related
information collection based on the specified collection rule (Task C). At
this level, telecom system can assist human to improve the execution and
awareness efficiency for RAN UE throughput optimization.
\- All the other tasks in the RAN UE throughput optimization workflow (Task A,
Task B, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G, Task H, Task I) are accomplished by
human.
**Level 2:**
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of RAN
UE throughput issues identification, RAN UE throughput issues demarcation and
RAN UE throughput issues root cause analysis based on the specified RAN UE
throughput issues identification rule, RAN UE throughput issues demarcation
rule and RAN UE throughput issues root cause analysis rule (Task D, Task F,
Task G). The tasks of RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions execution (Task
J) is fully accomplished by telecom system. At this level, telecom system can
assist human to achieve the closed loop for RAN UE throughput optimization
based on human defined rules.
\- All the other tasks in the RAN UE throughput optimization workflow (Task A,
Task B, Task E, Task H, Task I) are accomplished by human.
**Level 3:**
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of RAN
UE throughput adjustment solutions analysis (Task H) and RAN UE throughput
adjustment solutions evaluation and determination (Task I) based on the
specified RAN UE throughput adjustment policies and evaluation policies. In
this level, telecom system also can execute the tasks of RAN UE throughput
deterioration prediction (Task E) based on the specified deterioration
prediction policies. The tasks of RAN UE throughput related information
collection (Task C), RAN UE throughput issues identification (Task D) and RAN
UE throughput issues demarcation (Task F) are fully accomplished by telecom
system. At this level, the telecom system can achieve the closed loop
automation for RAN UE throughput optimization based on the human defined
optimization policies.
\- All the other tasks in the RAN UE throughput optimization workflow (Task A,
Task B) are accomplished by human.
**Level 4:**
\- Compared to Level 3, the telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
RAN UE throughput optimization policies determination (Task A), and RAN UE
throughput optimization intent evaluation (Task B) based on received RAN UE
throughput optimization intent and intent translation/evaluation policies. The
tasks of RAN UE throughput adjustment solutions analysis (Task H), RAN UE
throughput adjustment solutions evaluation and determination (Task I), RAN UE
throughput deterioration prediction (Task E) and RAN UE throughput issues root
cause analysis (Task G) are fully accomplished by telecom system. At this
level, telecom system can achieve the intent driven closed loop automation for
RAN UE throughput optimization based on human defined intent translation and
evaluation policies
\- The intent translation and evaluation policies maybe pre-defined and
specified by human to assist the telecom system.
**Level 5:**
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of RAN UE
throughput optimization for all scenarios, which means the telecom system can
achieve the full autonomy for RAN UE throughput optimization for full
scenarios.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="3.173611111111111in"}Figure A.2.2-1:
Classification of autonomous network level for RAN UE throughput optimization
#