# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning
(AI/ML) management capabilities and services for 5GS where AI/ML is used,
including management and orchestration (e.g. MDA, see 3GPP TS 28.104 [2]) and
5G networks (e.g. NWDAF, see 3GPP TS 23.288 [3]).
The present document also describes the functionality and service framework
for AI/ML management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data
Analytics\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.405: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Control and configuration\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.406: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Information definition and transport\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Model repertoire\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.160: \"Management and orchestration; Management service
template\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**ML entity:** an entity that is either an ML model or contains an ML model
and ML model related metadata, it can be managed as a single composite entity.
NOTE 1: Metadata may include e.g. the applicable runtime context for the ML
model.
**AI decision entity** : an entity that applies a non-ML based logic for
making decisions that can be managed as a single composite entity.
**ML model:** mathematical algorithm that can be \"trained\" by data and human
expert input as examples to replicate a decision an expert would make when
provided that same information.
NOTE 2: The ML models are proprietary and not in scope for standardization.
**ML model training:** capabilities of an ML training function to take data,
run it through an ML model, derive the associated loss and adjust the
parameterization of that ML model based on the computed loss.
**ML training:** capabilities and associated end-to-end processes to enable an
ML training function to perform ML model training (as defined above).
NOTE 3: ML training capabilities may include interaction with other parties to
collect and format the data required for ML model training.
**ML training function** : a function with ML training capabilities; it is
also referred to as MLT function.
**AI/ML inference function** : a function that employs an ML model and/or AI
decision entity to conduct inference.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and TS 28.533 [15]. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] and TS 28.533 [15].
AI Artificial Intelligence
ML Machine Learning
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Overview
The AI/ML techniques and relevant applications are being increasingly adopted
by the wider industries and proved to be successful. These are now being
applied to telecommunication industry including mobile networks.
Although AI/ML techniques in general are quite mature nowadays, some of the
relevant aspects of the technology are still evolving while new complementary
techniques are frequently emerging.
The AI/ML techniques can be generally characterized from different
perspectives including the followings:
\- **Learning methods**
The learning methods include supervised learning, semi-supervised learning,
unsupervised learning and reinforcement learning. Each learning method fits
one or more specific category of inference (e.g. prediction), and requires
specific type of training data. A brief comparison of these learning methods
is provided in table 4.1-1.
Table 4.1-1: Comparison of Learning methods
* * *
                                                                                                                          Supervised learning                    Semi-supervised learning                    Unsupervised learning   Reinforcement learning
* * *
**Category of inference** Regression (numeric), classification Regression
(numeric), classification Association,\ Reward-based behaviour Clustering
**Type of training data** Labelled data (Note) Labelled data (Note), and
unlabelled data Unlabelled data Not pre-defined
NOTE: The labelled data means the input and output parameters are explicitly
labelled for each training data example.
* * *
**\- Learning complexity:**
\- As per the learning complexity, there are Machine Learning (i.e. basic
learning) and Deep Learning.
**\- Learning architecture**
\- Based on the topology and location where the learning tasks take place, the
AI/ML can be categorized to centralized learning, distributed learning and
federated learning.
**\- Learning continuity**
\- From learning continuity perspective, the AI/ML can be offline learning or
continual learning.
Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) capabilities are used in
various domains in 5GS, including management and orchestration (e.g. MDA, see
3GPP TS 28.104 [2]) and 5G networks (e.g. NWDAF, see 3GPP TS 23.288 [3]).
The AI/ML-inference function in the 5GS uses the ML model and/or AI decision
entity for inference.
Each AI/ML technique, depending on the adopted specific characteristics as
mentioned above, may be suitable for supporting certain type/category of use
case(s) in 5GS.
To enable and facilitate the AI/ML capabilities with the suitable AI/ML
techniques in 5GS, the ML model and AI/ML inference function need to be
managed.
The present document specifies the AI/ML management related capabilities and
services, which include the followings:
\- ML training.
# 4A AI/ML management functionality and service framework
## 4A.1 Functionality and service framework for ML training
An ML training Function playing the role of ML training MnS producer, may
consume various data for ML training purpose.
As illustrated in Figure 5.1-1 the ML training capability is provided via ML
training MnS in the context of SBMA to the authorized consumer(s) by ML
training MnS producer.
Figure 5.1-1: Functional overview and service framework for ML training
The internal business logic of ML training leverages the current and
historical relevant data, including those listed below to monitor the networks
and/or services where relevant to the ML model, prepare the data, trigger and
conduct the training:
\- Performance Measurements (PM) as per 3GPP TS 28.552 [4], 3GPP TS 32.425 [5]
and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as per 3GPP TS 28.554 [6].
\- Trace/MDT/RLF/RCEF data, as per 3GPP TS 32.422 [7] and 3GPP TS 32.423 [8].
\- QoE and service experience data as per 3GPP TS 28.405 [9] and 3GPP TS
28.406 [10].
\- Analytics data offered by NWDAF as per 3GPP TS 23.288 [3].
\- Alarm information and notifications as per 3GPP TS 28.532 [11].
\- CM information and notifications.
\- MDA reports from MDA MnS producers as per 3GPP TS 28.104 [2].
\- Management data from non-3GPP systems.
\- Other data that can be used for training.
# 5 Void
# 6 AI/ML management use cases and requirements
## 6.1 General
The use cases and requirements for AI/ML management are specified in the
following clauses.
## 6.2 ML training
### 6.2.1 Description
In operational environment before the ML entity is deployed to conduct
inference, the ML model associated with the ML entity needs to be trained
(e.g. by ML training function which may be a separate or an external entity to
the AI/ML inference function).
NOTE: In the present document, ML entity training refers to ML model training
associated with an ML entity.
The ML Entity is trained by the ML training (MLT) MnS producer, and the
training can be triggered by request(s) from one or more MLT MnS consumer(s),
or initiated by the MLT MnS producer (e.g. as result of model evaluation).
### 6.2.2 Use cases
#### 6.2.2.1 ML training requested by consumer
The ML training capabilities are provided by an MLT MnS producer to one or
more consumer(s).
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: ML training requested by MLT MnS consumer
The ML training may be triggered by the request(s) from one or more MLT MnS
consumer(s). The consumer may be for example a network function, a management
function, an operator, or another functional differentiation To trigger an ML
training, the MLT MnS consumer requests the MLT MnS producer to train the ML
model. In the ML training request, the consumer should specify the inference
type which indicates the function or purpose of the ML entity, e.g.
CoverageProblemAnalysis. The **MLT** MnS producer can perform the training
according to the designated inference type. The consumer may provide the data
source(s) that contain(s) the training data which are considered as inputs
candidates for training. To obtain the valid training outcomes, consumers may
also designate their requirements for model performance (e.g. accuracy, etc)
in the training request.
The **MLT** MnS producer provides a response to the consumer indicating
whether the request was accepted.
If the request is accepted, the **MLT MnS producer decides when to start the
ML training with consideration of the request(s) from the consumer(s). Once
the training is decided, the producer performs the followings:**
\- selects the training data, with consideration of the consumer provided
candidate training data. Since the training data directly influences the
algorithm and performance of the trained ML Entity, the MLT MnS producer may
examine the consumer\'s provided training data and decide to select none, some
or all of them. In addition, the MLT MnS producer may select some other
training data that are available;
\- trains the ML entity using the selected training data;
\- provides the training results to the MLT MnS consumer(s).
#### 6.2.2.2 ML training initiated by producer
The ML training may be initiated by the MLT MnS producer, for instance as a
result of performance evaluation of the ML model, based on feedback or new
training data received from the consumer, or when new training data which are
not from the consumer describing the new network status/events become
available.
When the **MLT MnS producer decides to start the ML training, the producer
performs the followings:**
\- selects the training data;
\- trains the ML entity using the selected training data;
\- provides the training results to the MLT MnS consumer(s) who have
subscribed to receive the ML training results.
#### 6.2.2.3 ML model and and ML entity selection
For a given machine learning-based use case, different entities that apply the
respective ML model or AI/ML inference function may have different inference
requirements and capabilities. For example, one consumer with specific
responsibility and wish to have an AI/ML inference function supported by an ML
model or entity trained for city central business district where mobile users
move at speeds not exceeding 30 km/hr. On the other hand, another consumer,
for the same use case may support a rural environment and as such wishes to
have an ML model and AI/ML inference function fitting that type of
environment. The different consumers need to know the available versions of ML
entities, with the variants of trained ML models or entities and to select the
appropriate one for their respective conditions.
Besides, there is no guarantee that the available ML models/entities have been
trained according to the characteristics that the consumers expect. As such
the consumers need to know the conditions for which the ML models or ML
entities have been trained to then enable them to select the models that are
best fit to their conditions and needs.
The models that have been trained may differ in terms of complexity and
performance. For example, a generic comprehensive and complex model may have
been trained in a cloud-like environment but such a model cannot be used in
the gNB and instead, a less complex model, trained as a derivative of this
generic model, could be a better candidate. Moreover, multiple less complex
models could be trained with different levels of complexity and performance
which would then allow different relevant models to be delivered to different
network functions depending on operating conditions and performance
requirements. The network functions need to know the alternative models
available and interactively request and replace them when needed and depending
on the observed inference‑related constraints and performance requirements.
#### 6.2.2.4 Managing ML training processes
_This machine learning capability relates to means for managing and
controlling ML model/entity training processes_.
To achieve the desired outcomes of any machine learning relevant use-case, the
ML model applied for such analytics and decision making, needs to be trained
with the appropriate data. The training may be undertaken in a managed
function or in a management function.
In either case, the network (or the OAM system thereof) not only needs to have
the required training capabilities but needs to also have the means to manage
the training of the ML models/entities. The consumers need to be able to
interact with the training process, e.g. , to suspend or restart the process;
and also need to manage and control the requests related to any such training
process.
#### 6.2.2.5 Handling errors in data and ML decisions
Traditionally, the ML models/entities (e.g. , ML entity1 and ML entity2 in
figure 6.2.2.5-1) are trained on good quality data, i.e. , data that were
collected correctly and reflected the real network status to represent the
expected context in which the ML entity is meant to operate. Good quality data
is void of errors, such as:
**-** Imprecise measurements, with added noise (such as RSRP, SINR, or QoE
estimations).
**-** Missing values or entire records, e.g. , because of communication link
failures.
**-** Records which are communicated with a significant delay (in case of
online measurements).
Without errors, an ML entity can depend on a few precise inputs, and does not
need to exploit the redundancy present in the training data. However, during
inference, the ML entity is very likely to come across these inconsistencies.
When this happens, the ML entity shows high error in the inference outputs,
even if redundant and uncorrupted data are available from other sources.
Figure 6.2.2.5-1: The propagation of erroneous information
As such the system needs to account for errors and inconsistencies in the
input data and the consumers should deal with decisions that are made based on
such erroneous and inconsistent data. The system should:
1) enable functions to undertake the training in a way that prepares the ML
entities to deal with the errors in the training data, i.e. , to identify the
errors in the data during training;
2) enable the MLT MnS consumers to be aware of the possibility of erroneous
input data that are used by the ML entity.
### 6.2.3 Requirements for ML training
Table 6.2.3-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Requirement label | Description | Related use case(s) | +======================+======================+======================+ | **RE | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | Q-ML_TRAIN-FUN-01** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability allowing | consumer (clause | | | the consumer to | 6.2.2.1) | | | request ML training. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ- | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | ML_TRAIN-FUN-02** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability allowing | consumer (clause | | | the consumer to | 6.2.2.1) | | | specify the data | | | | sources containing | | | | the candidate | | | | training data for ML | | | | training. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ- | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | ML_TRAIN-FUN-03** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability allowing | consumer (clause | | | the consumer to | 6.2.2.1) | | | specify the | | | | inference type of | | | | the ML model entity | | | | to be trained. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ- | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | ML_TRAIN-FUN-04** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability to | consumer (clause | | | provide the training | 6.2.2.1), /ML | | | result to the | training initiated | | | consumer. | by producer (clause | | | | 6.2.2.2) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | 3GPP management | ML model and ML | | _REQ-ML_SELECT-01_ _| system shall have | entity selection | | | the capability to | (clause 6.2.2.3) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer to discover | | | | the characteristics | | | | of available models | | | | including the | | | | contexts under which | | | | each of the models | | | | was trained. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | 3GPP management | ML models and ML | |_ REQ-ML_SELECT-02**| system shall have | entity selection | | | the capability to | (clause 6.2.2.3) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer to select | | | | an ML model. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | *REQ-ML_SELECT-03** | shall have the | requested by | | | capability to enable | consumer (clause | | | an authorized | 6.2.2.1), ML model | | | consumer to request | and ML entity | | | for a model to be | selection (clause | | | trained to satisfy | 6.2.2.3) | | | the consumer\'s | | | | expectations. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | 3GPP management | ML model and ML | | _REQ-ML_SELECT-04_ _| system shall have | entity selection | | | the capability to | (clause 6.2.2.3) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer to request | | | | for information and | | | | be informed about | | | | the available | | | | alternative models | | | | of differing | | | | complexity and | | | | performance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | 3GPP management | ML model and ML | |_ REQ-ML_SELECT-05**| system shall have | entity selection | | | the capability to | (clause 6.2.2.3) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer to request | | | | one of the known or | | | | available | | | | alternative models | | | | of differing | | | | complexity and | | | | performance to be | | | | used for inference. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | The 3GPP management | ML model and ML | | *REQ-ML_SELECT-06** | system shall have a | entity selection | | | capability to | (clause 6.2.2.3) | | | provide a selected | | | | ML model/entity to | | | | the consumer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_TRAIN- | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | MGT-01** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability allowing | consumer (clause | | | an authorized | 6.2.2.1),Managing ML | | | consumer to manage | Training Processes | | | and configure one or | (clause 6.2.2.4) | | | more requests for | | | | the training of | | | | specific ML models | | | | or ML entities, e.g. | | | | to modify the | | | | characteristics of | | | | the request or to | | | | delete a request. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_TRAIN- | The MLT MnS producer | ML training | | MGT-02** | shall have a | requested by | | | capability allowing | consumer (clause | | | an authorized | 6.2.2.1), | | | consumer to manage | | | | and configure one or | Managing ML training | | | more training | processes (clause | | | processes, e.g. to | 6.2.2.4) | | | start, suspend or | | | | restart the | | | | training; or to | | | | adjust the training | | | | conditions and/or | | | | characteristics. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_TRAIN- | 3GPP management | Managing ML training | | MGT-03** | system shall have | processes (clause | | | the capability to | 6.2.2.4) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer (e.g. the | | | | function/entity | | | | different from the | | | | function that | | | | generated a request | | | | for ML model/entity | | | | training) to request | | | | for a report on the | | | | outcomes of a | | | | specific training | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_TRAIN- | 3GPP management | Managing ML training | | MGT-04** | system shall have | processes (clause | | | the capability to | 6.2.2.4) | | | enable an authorized | | | | consumer to define | | | | the reporting | | | | characteristics | | | | related to a | | | | specific training | | | | request or training | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_TRAIN- | 3GPP management | Managing ML training | | MGT-05** | system shall have | processes (clause | | | the capability to | 6.2.2.4) | | | enable the MLT | | | | function to report | | | | to any authorized | | | | consumer about | | | | specific ML Training | | | | process and/or | | | | report about the | | | | outcomes of any such | | | | ML training process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_ERROR-01** | The 3GPP management | Handling errors in | | | system shall enable | data and ML | | | an authorized | decisions (clause | | | consumer of data | 6.2.2.5) | | | services (e.g. an | | | | MLT function) to | | | | request from a | | | | producer of data | | | | services a Value | | | | Quality Score of the | | | | data, which is the | | | | numerical value that | | | | represents the | | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | | | | of a given | | | | observation and | | | | measurement type. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_ERROR-02** | The 3GPP management | Handling errors in | | | system shall enable | data and ML | | | an authorized | decisions (clause | | | consumer of AI/ML | 6.2.2.5) | | | decisions (e.g. a | | | | controller) to | | | | request ML decision | | | | confidence score | | | | which is the | | | | numerical value that | | | | represents the | | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | | | | of a given decision | | | | generated by an | | | | AI/ML-inference | | | | function. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_ERROR-03** | The 3GPP management | Handling errors in | | | system shall enable | data and ML | | | a producer of data | decisions (clause | | | services (e.g. a | 6.2.2.5) | | | gNB) to provide to | | | | an authorized | | | | consumer (e.g. an | | | | MLT function) a | | | | Value Quality Score | | | | of the data, which | | | | is the numerical | | | | value that | | | | represents the | | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | | | | of a given | | | | observation and | | | | measurement type. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **REQ-ML_ERROR-04** | The 3GPP management | Handling errors in | | | system shall enable | data and ML | | | a producer of ML | decisions (clause | | | decisions (e.g. an | 6.2.2.5) | | | AI/ML inference | | | | function) to provide | | | | to an authorized | | | | consumer of AI/ML | | | | decisions (e.g. a | | | | controller) an AI/ML | | | | decision confidence | | | | score which is the | | | | numerical value that | | | | represents the | | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | | | | of a given decision | | | | generated by the | | | | inference function. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 7 Information model definitions for AI/ML management
## 7.1 Imported and associated information entities
### 7.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Table 7.1.1-1
Label reference Local label
* * *
3GPP TS 28.622 [12], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.622 [12], IOC, SubNetwork
SubNetwork 3GPP TS 28.622 [12], IOC, ManagedElement ManagedElement 3GPP TS
28.622 [12], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction
## 7.2 Class diagram
### 7.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant to ML model training. For the UML semantics, see TS
32.156 [13].
Figure 7.2.1-1: NRM fragment for ML training
### 7.2.2 Inheritance
Figure 7.2.2-1: Inheritance Hierarchy for ML training related NRMs
## 7.3 Class definitions
### 7.3.1 MLTrainingFunction
#### 7.3.1.1 Definition
The IOC MLTrainingFunction represents the entity that undertakes ML training
and is also the container of the MLTrainingRequest IOC(s).
The entity represented by MLTrainingFunction MOI supports training of one or
more MLEntity(s).
#### 7.3.1.2 Attributes
Table 7.3.1.2-1
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable mLEntityList M T F F F
* * *
#### 7.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 7.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 7.6 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 7.3.2 MLTrainingRequest
#### 7.3.2.1 Definition
The IOC MLTrainingRequest represents the ML model training request that is
created by the ML training MnS consumer.
The MLTrainingRequest MOI is contained under one MLTrainingFunction MOI. Each
MLTrainingRequest is associated to at least one MLEntity.
The MLTrainingRequest may have a source to identify where it is coming from,
and which may be used to prioritize the training resources for different
sources. The sources may be for example the network functions, operator roles,
or other functional differentiations.
Each MLTrainingRequest may indicate the expectedRunTimeContext that describes
the specific conditions for which the MLEntity should be trained.
In case the request is accepted, the ML training **MnS producer decides when
to start the ML training. Once the MnS producer decides to start the training
based on the request, the ML training MnS producer instantiates one or more
MLTrainingProcess MOI(s) that are responsible to perform the followings:**
\- collects (more) data for training, if the training data are not available
or the data are available but not sufficient for the training;
\- prepares and selects the required training data, with consideration of the
consumer's request provided candidate training data if any. The ML training
MnS producer may examine the consumer\'s provided candidate training data and
select none, some or all of them for training. In addition, the ML training
MnS producer may select some other training data that are available in order
to meet the consumer's requirements for the MLentity training;
\- trains the MLEntity using the selected and prepared training data.
The MLTrainingRequest may have a requestStatus field to represent the status
of the specific MLTrainingRequest:
**-** The attribute values are \"NOT_STARTED\", \"TRAINING_IN_PROGRESS\",
\"SUSPENDED\", \"FINISHED\", and \"CANCELLED\".
\- When value turns to \"TRAINING_IN_PROGRESS\", the ML training MnS producer
instantiates one or more MLTrainingProcess MOI(s) representing the training
process(es) being performed per the request and notifies the MLT MnS
consumer(s) who subscribed to the notification.
When all of the training process associated to this request are completed, the
value turns to \"FINISHED\".
#### 7.3.2.2 Attributes
Table 7.3.2.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
mLEntityId M T T F T candidateTrainingDataSource O T T F T
trainingDataQualityScore O T T F T trainingRequestSource M T T F T
requestStatus M T F F T expectedRuntimeContext O T T F T
performanceRequirements M T T F T cancelRequest O T T F T suspendRequest O T T
F T **Attribute related to role**
#### 7.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 7.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 7.6 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 7.3.3 MLTrainingReport
#### 7.3.3.1 Definition
The IOC MLTrainingReport represents the ML model training report that is
provided by the training MnS producer.
The MLTrainingReport MOI is contained under one MLTrainingFunction MOI.
#### 7.3.3.2 Attributes
Table 7.3.3.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
mLEntityId M T F F T areConsumerTrainingDataUsed M T F F T
usedConsumerTrainingData CM T F F T confidenceIndication O T F F T
modelPerformanceTraining M T F F T areNewTrainingDataUsed M T F F T
**Attribute related to role**  
trainingRequestRef CM T F F T trainingProcessRef M T F F T lastTrainingRef CM
T F F T
#### 7.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
Table 7.3.3.3-1
Name Definition
* * *
usedConsumerTrainingData Support Qualifier Condition: The value of
areConsumerTrainingDataUsed attribute is ALL or PARTIALLY. trainingRequestRef
Support Qualifier Condition: The MLTrainingReport MOI represents the report
for the ML model training that was requested by the MnS consumer (via
MLTrainingRequest MOI). lastTrainingRef Support Qualifier Condition: The
MLTrainingReport MOI represents the report for the ML model training that was
not initial training (i.e. the model has been trained before).
#### 7.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 7.6 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 7.3.4 MLTrainingProcess
#### 7.3.4.1 Definition
The IOC MLTrainingProcess represents the ML training process.
One MLTrainingProcess MOI may be instantiated for each MLTrainingRequest MOI
or a set of MLTrainingRequest MOIs.
For each MLEntity under training, a MLTrainingProcess is instantiated, i.e. an
MLTrainingProcess is associated with exactly one MLEntity. The
MLTrainingProcess may be associated with one or more MLTrainingRequest MOI.
The MLTrainingProcess does not have to correspond to a specific
MLTrainingRequest, i.e. a MLTrainingRequest does not have to be associated to
a specific MLTrainingProcess. The MLTrainingProcess may be managed separately
from the MLTrainingRequest MOIs, e.g. the MLTrainingRequest MOI may come from
consumers which are network functions while the operator may wish to manage
the MLTrainingProcess that is instantiated following the requests. Thus, the
MLTrainingProcess may be associated to either one or more MLTrainingRequest
MOI.
Each MLTrainingProcess instance needs to be managed differently from the
related MLEntity, although the MLTrainingProcess may be associated to only one
MLEntity. For example, the MLTrainingProcess may be triggered to start with a
specific version of the MLEntity and multiple MLTrainingProcess instances may
be triggered for different versions of the MLEntity. In either case the
MLTrainingProcesse instances are still associated with the same MLEntity but
are managed separately from the MLEntity.
Each MLTrainingProcess has a priority that may be used to prioritize the
execution of different MLTrainingProcesse instances. By default, the priority
of the MLTrainingProcess may be related in a 1:1 manner with the priority of
the MLTrainingRequest for which the MLTrainingProcess is instantiated.
Each MLTrainingProcess may have one or more termination conditions used to
define the points at which the MLTrainingProcess may terminate.
The \"progressStatus\" attribute represents the status of the ML model
training and includes information the ML training MnS consumer can use to
monitor the progress and results. The data type of this attribute is
\"ProcessMonitor\" (see 3GPP TS 28.622 [12]). The following specializations
are provided for this data type for the ML training process:
**-** The \"**status** \" attribute values are \"RUNNING\", \"CANCELLING\",
\"SUSPENDED\", \"FINISHED\", and \"CANCELLED\". The other values are not used.
**-** The \"**timer** \" attribute is not used.
\- When the \"status\" is equal to \"RUNNING\" the \"progressStateInfo\"
attribute shall indicate one of the following states: \"COLLECTING_DATA\",
\"PREPARING_TRAINING_DATA\", \"TRAINING\".
\- No specifications are provided for the \"resultStateInfo\" attribute.
Vendor specific information may be provided though.
When the training is completed with \"**status** \" equal to \"FINISHED\", the
MLT MnS producer provides the training report, by creating an MLTrainingReport
MOI, to the MLT MnS consumer.
#### 7.3.4.2 Attributes
Table 7.3.4.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
mLTrainingProcessId M T T F T priority M T T F T terminationConditions M T T F
T progressStatus M T F F T cancelProcess O T T F T suspendProcess O T T F T
**Attribute related to role**  
trainingRequestRef CM T F F T trainingReportRef M T F F T
#### 7.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
Table 7.3.5.3-1
Name Definition
* * *
trainingRequestRef Support Qualifier Condition: The MLTrainingReport MOI
represents the report for the ML model training that was requested by the
training MnS consumer (via MLTrainingRequest MOI).
#### 7.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 7.6 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
## 7.4 Data type definitions
### 7.4.1 ModelPerformance \>
#### 7.4.1.1 Definition
This data type specifies the performance of an ML entity when performing
inference. The performance score is provided for each inference output.
#### 7.4.1.2 Attributes
Table 7.4.1.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
inferenceOutputName M T F F T performanceScore M T F F T performanceMetric M T
F F T decisionConfidenceScore O T F F T
#### 7.4.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 7.4.1.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
### 7.4.2 MLEntity \>
#### 7.4.2.1 Definition
This data type represents the properties of an ML entity. ML training may be
requested for either an ML model or ML entity. ML model is not to be
standardized.
For each MLEntity under training, one or more MLTrainingProcess are
instantiated.
The MLEntity may contain 3 types of contexts - TrainingContext which is the
context under which the MLEntity has been trained, the ExpectedRunTimeContext
which is the context where an MLEntity is expected to be applied or/and the
RunTimeContext which is the context where the MLmodel or entity is being
applied.
#### 7.4.2.2 Attributes
Table 7.4.2.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
mLEntityId M T F F T inferenceType M T F F T mLEntityVersion M T F F T
expectedRunTimeContext O T T F T trainingContext CM T F F T runTimeContext O T
F F T
#### 7.4.3.3 Attribute constraints
Table 7.4.3.3-1
Name Definition
* * *
trainingContext Support Qualifier Condition: The trainingContext represents
the status and conditions related to training and should be added when
training is completed.
#### 7.4.3.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
### 7.4.3 MLContext \>
#### 7.4.3.1 Definition
The MLContext represents the status and conditions related to the MLEntity.
Specially it may be one of three types of context - the
ExpectedRunTimeContext, the TrainingContext and the RunTimeContext.
#### 7.4.3.2 Attributes
Table 7.4.3.2-1
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
inferenceEntityRef CM T F F F dataProviderRef M T F F F
#### 7.4.3.3 Attribute constraints
Table 7.4.3.3-1
Name Definition
* * *
inferenceEntityRef Support Qualifier Condition: The MLContext is used for
ExpectedRunTimeContext or RunTimeContext.
#### 7.4.3.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
## 7.5 Attribute definitions
### 7.5.1 Attribute properties
Table 7.5.1-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +======================+======================+======================+ | mLEntityId | It identifies the ML | type: String | | | entity. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | It is unique in each | | | | MnS producer. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | candida | It provides the | type: String | | teTrainingDataSource | address(es) of the | | | | candidate training | multiplicity: * | | | data source provided | | | | by MnS consumer. The | isOrdered: False | | | detailed training | | | | data format is | isUnique: True | | | vendor specific. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inferenceType | It indicates the | type: String | | | type of inference | | | | that the ML model | multiplicity: 1 | | | supports. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: the | | | | values of the MDA | isUnique: N/A | | | type (see 3GPP TS | | | | 28.104 [2]), | defaultValue: None | | | Analytics ID(s) of | | | | NWDAF (see 3GPP TS | isNullable: True | | | 23.288 [3]), types | | | | of inference for | | | | RAN‑intelligence, | | | | and vendor\'s | | | | specific extensions. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | areCons | It indicates whether | type: Enum | | umerTrainingDataUsed | the consumer | | | | provided training | multiplicity: 1 | | | data have been used | | | | for the ML model | isOrdered: N/A | | | training. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: ALL, | | | | PARTIALLY, NONE. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | used | It provides the | type: String | | ConsumerTrainingData | address(es) where | | | | lists of the | multiplicity: * | | | consumer-provided | | | | training data are | isOrdered: False | | | located, which have | | | | been used for the ML | isUnique: True | | | model training. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trainingRequestRef | It is the DN(s) of | type: DN (see TS | | | the related | 32.156 [13]) | | | MLTrainingRequest | | | | MOI(s). | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | allowedValues: DN. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trainingProcessRef | It is the DN(s) of | type: DN (see TS | | | the related | 32.156 [13]) | | | MLTrainingProcess | | | | MOI(s) that produced | multiplicity: 1 | | | the | | | | MLTrainingReport. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: DN. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trainingReportRef | It is the DN of the | type: DN (see | | | MLTrainingReport MOI | TS 32.156 [13]) | | | that represents the | | | | reports of the ML | multiplicity: 1 | | | training. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: DN. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lastTrainingRef | It is the DN of the | type: DN (see 3GPP | | | MLTrainingReport MOI | TS 32.156 [13]) | | | that represents the | | | | reports for the last | multiplicity: 1 | | | training of the ML | | | | model. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: DN. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | confidenceIndication | It indicates the | type: integer | | | confidence (in unit | | | | of percentage) that | multiplicity: 1 | | | the ML model would | | | | perform for | isOrdered: N/A | | | inference on the | | | | data with the same | isUnique: N/A | | | distribution as | | | | training data. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: { | isNullable: False | | | 0..100 }. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mLEntityList | It describes the | type: MLEntity | | | list of MLEntity. | | | | | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | It describes the | type: String | | rainingRequestSource | entity that | | | | requested to | multiplicity: 1 | | | instantiate the | | | | MLTrainingRequest | isOrdered: N/A | | | MOI. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | requestStatus | It describes the | type: Enum | | | status of a | | | | particular ML | multiplicity: 1 | | | training request. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: | | | | NOT_STARTED, | isUnique: N/A | | | TRA | | | | INING_IN_PROGRESS, | defaultValue: None | | | CANCELLING, | | | | SUSPENDED, FINISHED, | isNullable: False | | | and CANCELLED. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mLTrainingProcessId | It identifies the | type: String | | | training process. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | It is unique in each | | | | instantiated process | isOrdered: N/A | | | in the MnS producer. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | priority | It indicates the | type: integer | | | priority of the | | | | training process. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | The priority may be | isOrdered: N/A | | | used by the ML | | | | training to schedule | isUnique: N/A | | | the training | | | | processes. Lower | defaultValue: 0 | | | value indicates a | | | | higher priority. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: { | | | | 0..65535 }. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | t | It indicates the | type: String | | erminationConditions | conditions to be | | | | considered by the | multiplicity: 1 | | | MLtraining MnS | | | | producer to | isOrdered: N/A | | | terminate a specific | | | | training process. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: MODEL | defaultValue: None | | | UPDATED_IN_ | | | | INFERENCE_FUNCTION, | isNullable: False | | | INFERENCE | | | | F | | | | UNCTION_TERMINATED, | | | | INFERENCE | | | | FUNCTION_UPGRADED, | | | | INFERENC | | | | E_CONTEXT_CHANGED. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | progressStatus | It indicates the | type: ProcessMonitor | | | status of the ML | (see TS 28.622 | | | training process. | [12]) | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mLEntityVersion | It indicates the | type: String | | | version number of | | | | the ML entity. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | per | It indicates the | type: | | formanceRequirements | expected performance | ModelPerformance | | | for a trained ML | | | | entity when | multiplicity: * | | | performing on the | | | | training data. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mode | It indicates the | type: | | lperformanceTraining | performance score of | ModelPerformance | | | the ML entity when | | | | performing on the | multiplicity: * | | | training data. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mLTraining | It provides the | Type: String | | Process.progressStat | following | | | us.progressStateInfo | specialization for | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | the | | | | \ | isOrdered: N/A | | | "progressStateInfo\" | | | | attribute of the | isUnique: N/A | | | \"ProcessMonitor\" | | | | data type for the | defaultValue: None | | | \" | | | | MLTrainingProcess\". | isNullable: False | | | | | | | When the ML training | | | | is in progress, and | | | | the \" | | | | mLTrainingProcess.p | | | | rogressStatus.status | | | | \" is equal to | | | | \"RUNNING\", it | | | | provides the more | | | | detailed progress | | | | information. | | | | | | | | allowedValues for \" | | | | mLTrainingProcess.p | | | | rogressStatus.status | | | | \" = \"RUNNING\": | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > COLLECTING_DATA | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > PREPA | | | | RING_TRAINING_DATA | | | | > | | | | > \- TRAINING | | | | | | | | The allowed values | | | | for \" | | | | mLTrainingProcess.p | | | | rogressStatus.status | | | | \" = \"CANCELLED\" | | | | are vendor specific. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inferenceOutputName | It indicates the | Type: String | | | name of an inference | | | | output of an ML | multiplicity: 1 | | | entity. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: the | | | | name of the MDA | isUnique: N/A | | | output IEs (see 3GPP | | | | TS 28.104 [2]), | defaultValue: None | | | name of analytics | | | | output IEs of NWDAF | isNullable: False | | | (see TS 23.288 | | | | [3]), | | | | RAN-intelligence | | | | inference output IE | | | | name(s), and | | | | vendor\'s specific | | | | extensions. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | performanceMetric | It indicates the | Type: String | | | performance metric | | | | used to evaluate the | multiplicity: 1 | | | performance of an ML | | | | entity, e.g. | isOrdered: N/A | | | \"accuracy\", | | | | \"precision\", \"F1 | isUnique: True | | | score\", etc. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | performanceScore | It indicates the | Type: Real | | | performance score | | | | (in unit of | multiplicity: 1 | | | percentage) of an ML | | | | entity when | isOrdered: N/A | | | performing inference | | | | on a specific data | isUnique: N/A | | | set (Note). | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | The performance | | | | metrics may be | isNullable: False | | | different for | | | | different kinds of | | | | ML models depending | | | | on the nature of the | | | | model. For instance, | | | | for numeric | | | | prediction, the | | | | metric may be | | | | accuracy; for | | | | classification, the | | | | metric may be a | | | | combination of | | | | precision and | | | | recall, like the | | | | \"F1 score\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: { | | | | 0..100 }. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cancelRequest | It indicates whether | Type: Boolean | | | the ML training MnS | | | | consumer cancels the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | ML training request. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Setting this | | | | attribute to | isUnique: N/A | | | \"TRUE\" cancels the | | | | ML training request. | defaultValue: FALSE | | | Cancellation is | | | | possible when the | isNullable: False | | | requestStatus is the | | | | \"NOT_STARTED\", \" | | | | TRAIN | | | | ING_IN_PROGRESS\", | | | | and \"SUSPENDED\" | | | | state. Setting the | | | | attribute to | | | | \"FALSE\" has no | | | | observable result. | | | | | | | | Default value is set | | | | to \"FALSE\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: TRUE, | | | | FALSE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspendRequest | It indicates whether | Type: Boolean | | | the ML training MnS | | | | consumer suspends | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | the /ML training | | | | request. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Setting this | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute to | | | | \"TRUE\" suspends | defaultValue: FALSE | | | the ML training | | | | request. Suspension | isNullable: False | | | is possible when the | | | | requestStatus is not | | | | the \"FINISHED\" | | | | state. Setting the | | | | attribute to | | | | \"FALSE\" has no | | | | observable result. | | | | | | | | Default value is set | | | | to \"FALSE\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: TRUE, | | | | FALSE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | cancelProcess | It indicates whether | Type: Boolean | | | the ML training MnS | | | | consumer cancels the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | ML training process. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Setting this | | | | attribute to | isUnique: N/A | | | \"TRUE\" cancels the | | | | ML training request. | defaultValue: FALSE | | | Cancellation is | | | | possible when the \" | isNullable: False | | | m | | | | LTrainingProcess.pro | | | | gressStatus.status\" | | | | is not the | | | | \"FINISHED\" state. | | | | Setting the | | | | attribute to | | | | \"FALSE\" has no | | | | observable result. | | | | | | | | Default value is set | | | | to \"FALSE\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: TRUE, | | | | FALSE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suspendProcess | It indicates whether | Type: Boolean | | | the ML training MnS | | | | consumer suspends | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | the ML training | | | | process. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Setting this | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute to | | | | \"TRUE\" suspends | defaultValue: FALSE | | | the ML training | | | | request. Suspension | isNullable: False | | | is possible when the | | | | \" | | | | m | | | | LTrainingProcess.pro | | | | gressStatus.status\" | | | | is not the | | | | \"FINISHED\", | | | | \"CANCELLING\" or | | | | \"CANCELLED\" state. | | | | Setting the | | | | attribute to | | | | \"FALSE\" has no | | | | observable result. | | | | | | | | Default value is set | | | | to \"FALSE\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: TRUE, | | | | FALSE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | inferenceEntityRef | It describes the | Type: DN (see 3GPP | | | target entities that | TS 32.156 [13]) | | | will use the ML | | | | entity for | multiplicity: * | | | inference. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dataProviderRef | It describes the | Type: DN (see 3GPP | | | entities that have | TS 32.156 [13]) | | | provided or should | | | | provide data needed | multiplicity: * | | | by the ML entity | | | | e.g. for training or | isOrdered: False | | | inference | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ar | It indicates whether | type: Boolean | | eNewTrainingDataUsed | the other new | | | | training data have | multiplicity: 1 | | | been used for the ML | | | | model training. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: TRUE, | isUnique: N/A | | | FALSE. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trai | It indicates | Type: Real | | ningDataQualityScore | numerical value that | | | | represents the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | isOrdered: N/A | | | of a given | | | | observation and | isUnique: N/A | | | measurement type. | | | | The lowest value | defaultValue: None | | | indicates the lowest | | | | level of | isNullable: False | | | dependability of the | | | | data, i.e. that the | | | | data is not usable | | | | at all. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: { | | | | 0..100 }. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dec | It is the numerical | Type: Real | | isionConfidenceScore | value that | | | | represents the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | d | | | | ependability/quality | isOrdered: N/A | | | of a given decision | | | | generated by the | isUnique: N/A | | | AI/ML inference | | | | function. The lowest | defaultValue: None | | | value indicates the | | | | lowest level of | isNullable: False | | | dependability of the | | | | decisions, i.e. that | | | | the data is not | | | | usable at all. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: { | | | | 0..100 }. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ex | This describes the | Type: MLContext | | pectedRuntimeContext | context where an | | | | MLEntity is expected | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | to be applied or/and | | | | the RunTimeContext | isOrdered: N/A | | | which is the context | | | | where the MLmodel or | isUnique: N/A | | | entity is being | | | | applied. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: NA | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trainingContext | This specify the | Type: MLContext | | | context under which | | | | the MLEntity has | multiplicity: 1 | | | been trained. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: NA | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | runTimeContext | This specifies the | Type: MLContext | | | context where the | | | | MLmodel or entity is | multiplicity: 1 | | | being applied. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: NA | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: When the | | | | performanceScore is | | | | to indicate the | | | | performance score | | | | for ML training, the | | | | data set is the | | | | training data set. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.5.2 Constraints
None.
## 7.6 Common notifications
### 7.6.1 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [11],
that an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance shall capture the DN of an instance of a class
defined in the present document.
Table 7.6.1-1
Name Qualifier Notes
* * *
notifyMOICreation O -- notifyMOIDeletion O -- notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges O
-- notifyEvent O --
# 8 Service components
## 8.1 Service components for ML model training MnS
The components for ML model training MnS are listed in table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1: Components for ML model training MnS
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Management service | Management service | Management service | | component type A | component type B | component type C | +======================+======================+======================+ | The operations and | MLTrainingFunction | N/A | | notifications for | IOC; | | | generic provisioning | MLTrainingRequest | | | management service | IOC; | | | (see clause 11.1.1 | | | | of 3GPP TS 28.532 | MLTrainingReport | | | [11]). | IOC; | | | | | | | | MLTrainingProcess | | | | IOC. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 9 Solution Set (SS)
The present document defines the following NRM Solution Set definitions for ML
management:
\- YAML based Solution Set (Annex B).
###### ## Annex A (informative): PlantUML source code for NRM class diagrams
# A.1 General
This annex contains the PlantUML source code for the NRM diagrams defined in
clause 7.2 of the present document.
# A.2 PlantUML code for Figure 7.2.1-1: NRM fragment for ML model training
\@startuml
skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal
skinparam ClassBackgroundColor White
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide members
hide circle
\'skinparam maxMessageSize 250
class ManagedEntity \>
class MLEntity \>
class MLTrainingFunction \>
class MLTrainingRequest \>
class MLTrainingReport \>
class MLTrainingProcess \>
ManagedEntity \"1\" *-- \"*\" MLTrainingFunction: \>
MLTrainingFunction \"1\" -d-> \"*\" MLEntity
MLTrainingFunction \"1\" *-- \"*\" MLTrainingProcess: \>
MLTrainingFunction \"1\" *-- \"*\" MLTrainingRequest: \>
MLTrainingFunction \"1\" *-- \"*\" MLTrainingReport: \>
MLTrainingProcess \"1\" \ \"1\" MLTrainingReport
MLTrainingReport \"1\" --> \"1\" MLTrainingReport
MLTrainingRequest \"*\" -l-> \"1\" MLEntity
MLTrainingRequest \"*\" -r-> \"*\" MLTrainingProcess
note left of ManagedEntity
Represents the following IOCs:
Subnetwork or
ManagedFunction or
ManagedElement
end note
\@enduml
# A.3 PlantUML code for Figure 7.2.2-1: Inheritance Hierarchy for ML model
training related NRMs
\@startuml
skinparam ClassStereotypeFontStyle normal
skinparam ClassBackgroundColor White
skinparam shadowing false
skinparam monochrome true
hide members
hide circle
\'skinparam maxMessageSize 250
class Top \>
class ManagedFunction \>
class MLTrainingFunction \>
class MLTrainingRequest \>
class MLTrainingProcess \>
class MLTrainingReport \>
ManagedFunction \-
OAS 3.0.1 specification of the AI/ML NRM
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 28.105; AI/ML Management
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/28_series/28.105/
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#-------- Definition of
types-----------------------------------------------------
MLEntityList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLEntity\'
MLEntity:
type: object
properties:
mLEntityId:
type: string
inferenceType:
type: string
mLEntityVersion:
type: string
expectedRunTimeContext:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLContext\'
trainingContext:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLContext\'
runTimeContext:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLContext\'
MLContext:
type: object
properties:
inferenceEntityRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
dataProviderRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
RequestStatus:
type: string
enum:
\- NOT_STARTED
\- TRAINING_IN_PROGRESS
\- SUSPENDED
\- FINISHED
\- CANCELLED
PerformanceRequirements:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ModelPerformance\'
ModelPerformance:
type: object
properties:
inferenceOutputName:
type: string
performanceMetric:
type: string
performanceScore:
type: number
format: float
decisionConfidenceScore:
type: number
format: float
TrainingProcessMonitor:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ProcessMonitor\" data type defined in
"genericNrm.yaml" with specialisations for usage in the \"MLTrainingProcess\".
type: object
properties:
mLTrainingProcessId:
type: string
status:
type: string
enum:
\- RUNNING
\- CANCELLING
\- CANCELLED
\- SUSPENDED
\- FINSHED
progressPercentage:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 100
progressStateInfo:
type: string
enum:
\- COLLECTING_DATA
\- PREPARING_TRAINING_DATA
\- TRAINING
resultStateInfo:
type: string
#-------- Definition of abstract IOCs
\--------------------------------------------
#-------- Definition of concrete IOCs
\--------------------------------------------
SubNetwork-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
\$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Attr\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
SubNetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Multiple\'
ManagedElement:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Multiple\'
MLTrainingFunction:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingFunction-Multiple\'
ManagedElement-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
\$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Attr\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
MLTrainingFunction:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingFunction-Multiple\'
MLTrainingFunction-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-Attr\'
\- type: object
properties:
mLEntityList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLEntityList\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedFunction-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
MLTrainingRequest:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingRequest-Multiple\'
MLTrainingProcess:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingProcess-Multiple\'
MLTrainingReport:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingReport-Multiple\'
MLTrainingRequest-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- type: object
properties:
mLEntityId:
type: string
candidateTrainingDataSource:
type: array
items:
type: string
trainingDataQualityScore:
type: number
format: float
trainingRequestSource:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
requestStatus:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/RequestStatus\'
expectedRuntimeContext:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLContext\'
performanceRequirements:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/PerformanceRequirements\'
cancelRequest:
type: boolean
suspendRequest:
type: boolean
MLTrainingProcess-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- type: object
properties:
mLTrainingProcessId:
type: string
priority:
type: integer
terminationConditions:
type: string
progressStatus:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/TrainingProcessMonitor\'
cancelProcess:
type: boolean
suspendProcess:
type: boolean
trainingRequestRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
trainingReportRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
MLTrainingReport-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- type: object
properties:
mLEntityId:
type: string
areConsumerTrainingDataUsed:
type: boolean
usedConsumerTrainingData:
type: array
items:
type: string
confidenceIndication:
type: integer
modelPerformanceTraining:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ModelPerformance\'
areNewTrainingDataUsed:
type: boolean
trainingRequestRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DnList\'
trainingProcessRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
trainingReportRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
lastTrainingRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
#-------- Definition of JSON arrays for name-contained IOCs
\----------------------
SubNetwork-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
ManagedElement-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Single\'
MLTrainingFunction-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingFunction-Single\'
MLTrainingRequest-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingRequest-Single\'
MLTrainingProcess-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingProcess-Single\'
MLTrainingReport-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingReport-Single\'
#-------- Definitions in TS 28.104 for TS 28.532
\---------------------------------
resources-AiMlNrm:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingFunction-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingRequest-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingProcess-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MLTrainingReport-Single\'
#