# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.304 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**28.305 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)**
**28.306 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information
Service (IS).
It specifies the semantics and behaviour of operations, notifications and
their parameters visible across Itf-N in a protocol and technology neutral
way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ES 202 336-12 (V1.1.1) (2015-06): \" Environmental Engineering (EE);
Monitoring and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling
and building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12:
ICT equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring
information model\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and
definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.412: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.304: \"Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.733: \"Information Technology -- Open Systems
Interconnection -- Systems Management: Alarm Reporting Function\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CU Control Unit
DGU Digital Gathering Unit
NM-RMS Network Management layer RMS
PEE Power, Energy and Environmental
PEECMON PEE Control and Monitoring
RMS Remote Management Server
VSE Vendor-Specific Extension
VS-RMS Vendor Specific RMS
XCU XML enabled CU
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
3GPP TS 32.150 [3], sub-clause 4.7.
Figure 4.1.1: System Context
# 5 Model
## 5.1 Model for solution 1
### 5.1.0 Introduction
NOTE: Void.
Due to the fact that existing CM, PM, and FM interface IRPs are applicable to
solution 1, the model definition of this solution can refer to model
definitions from Basic CM IRP (TS 32.602 [5]), Bulk CM IRP (TS 32.612 [6]), PM
IRP (TS 32.412 [7]) and Alarm IRP (TS 32.111-2 [8]).
Use cases and requirement for Solution 1 are described in 28.304 [9].
### 5.1.1 Imported and associated information entities
#### 5.1.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
None.
#### 5.1.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
None.
### 5.1.2 Class diagrams
#### 5.1.2.1 Relationships
Due to the fact that existing CM, PM, and FM interface IRPs are applicable to
solution 1, the model definition of this solution can refer to model
definitions from Basic CM IRP (TS 32.602 [5]), Bulk CM IRP (TS 32.612 [6]), PM
IRP (TS 32.412 [7]) and Alarm IRP (TS 32.111-2 [8]).
#### 5.1.2.2 Inheritance
Due to the fact that existing CM, PM, and FM interface IRPs are applicable to
solution 1, the model definition of this solution can refer to model
definitions from Basic CM IRP (TS 32.602 [5]), Bulk CM IRP (TS 32.612 [6]), PM
IRP (TS 32.412 [7]) and Alarm IRP (TS 32.111-2 [8]).
### 5.1.3 Class definitions
Due to the fact that existing CM, PM, and FM interface IRPs are applicable to
solution 1, the model definition of this solution can refer to model
definitions from Basic CM IRP (TS 32.602 [5]), Bulk CM IRP (TS 32.612 [6]), PM
IRP (TS 32.412 [7]) and Alarm IRP (TS 32.111-2 [8]).
### 5.1.4 Attribute definitions
NOTE: Void.
Attributes related to the control and monitoring of power, energy and
environmental parameters in radio access networks are defined in IOC
ManagedFunction -- cf. 3GPP TS 28.622 [4].
### 5.1.5 Common notifications
No additional notifications compared to those applicable to IOC
ManagedFunction -- cf. 3GPP TS 28.622 [4].
## 5.2 Model for solution 2
### 5.2.0 Introduction
This clause introduces the set of classes (i.e. IOCs, SupportIOCs) that
encapsulate information used by the CMON IRP for the control and monitoring of
PEE parameters in radio access networks. The intent is to identify the
information required for the CMONIRP implementation of its operations and
notification emission. This clause provides the overview of all support object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these support object classes.
### 5.2.1 Imported and associated information entities
#### 5.2.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
There is no imported information entity.
#### 5.2.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
There is no associated information entity.
### 5.2.2 Class diagrams
#### 5.2.2.1 Relationships
Figure 5.2.2.1.1: Information model for solution 2 - Relationships
#### 5.2.2.2 Inheritance
There is no inheritance defined.
### 5.2.3 Class definitions
#### 5.2.3.1 PEEMonitoredEntity
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents the monitoring of a base station whose Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters are monitored. It can apply to a GERAN, UTRAN
or E-UTRAN base station. It can apply to a base station with either a built-in
sensor or an external sensor.
##### 5.2.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable mEId M M - M -
* * *
##### 5.2.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
##### 5.2.3.1.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.1.5 State diagram
None.
#### 5.2.3.2 PEEMEDescription
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC provides a description of the monitored entity.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable siteIdentification M M M - M siteLatitude CM M M - M
siteLongitude CM M M - M siteDescription M M M - M equipmentType M M M - M
environmentType M M M - M powerInterface M M M - M xcuDguDescription CM M M -
M sensorDescription CM M M - M vSRmsDescription CM M M - M
* * *
##### 5.2.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
* * *
Name Definition xcuDguDescription It shall be supported only in case of base
stations with external sensors. sensorDescription It shall be supported only
in case of base stations with external sensors. vSRmsDescription It shall be
supported only in case of base stations with external sensors monitored via
VS-RMS. siteLatitude It shall be supported only in case of UTRAN or E-UTRAN
base stations. siteLongitude It shall be supported only in case of UTRAN or
E-UTRAN base stations.
* * *
##### 5.2.3.2.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.2.5 State diagram
None.
#### 5.2.3.3 PEEMeasurementData
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents the PEE measurements of the monitored entity.
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable powerAverage M M - M - powerMin M M - M - powerMax M M - M -
energyConsumption M M - M - temperatureAverage M M - M - temperatureMin M M -
M - temperatureMax M M - M - voltageAverage M M - M - voltageMin M M - M -
voltageMax M M - M - currentAverage M M - M - currentMin M M - M - currentMax
M M - M - humidityAverage M M - M - humidityMin M M - M - humidityMax M M - M
- collectionBeginTime M M - M - collectionEndTime M M - M -
* * *
##### 5.2.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
None.
##### 5.2.3.3.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.3.5 State diagram
None.
#### 5.2.3.4 PEEAlarmInformation
##### 5.2.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC represents the alarm information of the monitored entity.
##### 5.2.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable alarmId M M - M - alarmTime M M - M - alarmType M M - M -
perceivedSeverity M M - M - probableCause M M - M - additionaltext O M - M -
* * *
##### 5.2.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None.
##### 5.2.3.4.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.4.5 State diagram
None.
#### 5.2.3.5 PEEConfigInformation
##### 5.2.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents the PEE related configuration information of the monitored
entity.
##### 5.2.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable powerMinThreshold M M - M - powerMaxThreshold M M - M -
temperatureMinThreshold M M - M - temperatureMaxThreshold M M - M -
voltageMinThreshold M M - M - voltageMaxThreshold M M - M -
currentMinThreshold M M - M - currentMaxThreshold M M - M -
humidityMinThreshold M M - M - humidityMaxThreshold M M - M -
* * *
##### 5.2.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None.
##### 5.2.3.5.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.5.5 State diagram
None.
#### 5.2.3.6 PEECMONIRP
##### 5.2.3.6.1 Definition
PEECMONIRP is the representation of the Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters management capabilities specified by the present document.
##### 5.2.3.6.2 Attributes
None.
##### 5.2.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
None.
##### 5.2.3.6.4 Notifications
None.
##### 5.2.3.6.5 State diagram
None.
### 5.2.4 Attribute definitions
#### 5.2.4.1 Attribute properties
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | currentMinThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | minimum current | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex B | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | currentMaxThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | maximum current | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex B | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | environmentType | It indicates the | type: | | | type of environment | \> | | | of the monitored | | | | entity. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clause | isUnique: N/A | | | 4.4.1. | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | equipmentType | It indicates the | type: | | | type of equipment of | \> | | | the monitored | | | | entity. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clause | isUnique: N/A | | | 4.4.1. | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | humidityMinThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | minimum humidity | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clause | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, Annex B | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | humidityMaxThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | maximum humidity | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clause | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, Annex B | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mEId | It identifies the | type: Integer | | | monitored entity. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | powerInterface | It indicates the | type: | | | type of power | \> | | | interface of the | | | | monitored entity. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clause | isUnique: N/A | | | 4.4.1. | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | powerMinThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | minimum power | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.1, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex A | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | powerMaxThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | maximum power | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.1, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex A | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sensorDescription | It gives a | type: String | | | description of the | | | | sensor. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteDescription | It gives a | type: String | | | description of the | | | | site of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | monitored entity. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteIdentification | It gives an | type: String | | | identification of | | | | the site of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | monitored entity. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteLatitude | The latitude of the | type: Real | | | site location based | | | | on the World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Positive values | defaultValue: False | | | correspond to north | | | | of 0 degrees | isNullable: False | | | latitude (northern | | | | hemisphere). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -90.0000 to +90.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | siteLongitude | The longitude of the | type: Real | | | site location based | | | | on the World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Positive values | defaultValue: False | | | correspond to east | | | | of 0 degrees | isNullable: False | | | longitude. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -180.0000 to | | | | +180.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tem | It indicates the | type: Real | | peratureMinThreshold | minimum temperature | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clause | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.4, Annex B | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tem | It indicates the | type: Real | | peratureMaxThreshold | maximum temperature | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- clause | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.4, Annex B | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | voltageMinThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | minimum voltage | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex B | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | voltageMaxThreshold | It indicates the | type: Real | | | maximum voltage | | | | threshold value to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be used for raising | | | | alarms. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: N/A | | | ETSI ES 202 336-12 | | | | [2] -- Clauses | defaultValue: Null | | | 4.4.3.3, 4.4.3.4, | | | | Annex B | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vSRmsDescription | It gives a | type: String | | | description of the | | | | VS-RMS. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | xcuDguDescription | It gives a | type: String | | | description of the | | | | XCU/DGU. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: False | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.4.2 Constraints
* * *
Name Affected attribute(s) Definition inv_TimerConstraints ntfTimeTickTimer
The ntfTimeTickTimer is lower than or equal to ntfTimeTick.
* * *
### 5.2.5 Common notifications
None.
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Interface definition for solution 1
### 6.1.1 Class diagram
None.
## 6.2 Interface definition for solution 2
### 6.2.1 Class diagram
Figure 6.2.1.1: Class diagram representing interfaces for solution 2
### 6.2.2 Generic rules
Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy where \"yyy\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the\ pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_yyy which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
### 6.2.3 CMONOperations_1 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.3.1 Operation readMEDescription (M)
##### 6.2.3.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to read description data of the
monitored entity.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-001 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-002 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-003 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Type Comment mEId M mEId of the PEEMonitoredEntity
instance. This parameter contains the identification of the monitored entity.
attributeNameList O List of attribute names (in PEEMEDescription). This
parameter contains the list of names of attributes of the monitored entity,
from PEEMEDescription. If the list is not provided, name+value pairs for all
attributes of the monitored entity shall be returned.
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | mEId of the | This parameter | | | | PEE | contains the | | | | MonitoredEntity | identification | | | | instance. | of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | M | List of | This parameter | | ttNameValueList | | attribute name | contains a list | | | | (in | of attribute | | | | PE | name+value of | | | | EMEDescription) | the monitored | | | | and value pairs | entity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | allInfo | | | | ationSucceeded, | rmationReturned | | | | O | is true, status | | | | perationFailed) | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
##### 6.2.3.1.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.3.1.5 Post-condition
allInformationReturned.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allInformationReturned For all attributes of the
input parameter attributeNameList, their names and values are returned. All
their values remain unchanged as the result of this operation.
* * *
##### 6.2.3.1.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is | | | invalid or the post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Operation writeMEDescription (M)
##### 6.2.3.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to modify description data of the
monitored entity.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-007 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-008 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-009 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.3.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Name Qualifier Matching Type Comment mEId M mEId of the PEEMonitoredEntity
instance. This parameter contains the identification of the monitored entity.
attNameValueList M List of attribute name (in PEEMEDescription) and value
pairs This parameter contains the list of attribute name+value of the
monitored entity, for attributes in PEEMEDescription.
* * *
##### 6.2.3.2.3 Output parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Name | Qualifier | Matching | Comment | | | | Information | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | mEId of the | This parameter | | | | PEE | contains the | | | | MonitoredEntity | identification | | | | instance. | of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | M | List of | This parameter | | ttNameValueList | | attribute name | contains a list | | | | (in | of attribute | | | | PE | name+value of | | | | EMEDescription) | the modified | | | | and value pairs | attributes of | | | | | the monitored | | | | | entity after | | | | | the operation | | | | | has been | | | | | achieved. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Oper | allInfo | | | | ationSucceeded, | rmationReturned | | | | O | is true, status | | | | perationFailed) | = | | | | | Oper | | | | | ationSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | op | | | | | eration_failed | | | | | is true, status | | | | | = | | | | | O | | | | | perationFailed. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
##### 6.2.3.2.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.3.2.5 Post-condition
allAttributesCorrectlyModified.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allAttributesCorrectlyModified All attributes of the
input parameter attributeNameList have been correctly modified as requested by
this operation. All their modified values are returned.
* * *
##### 6.2.3.2.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is | | | invalid or the post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.4 CMONOperations_2 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.4.1 Operation readMEConfiguration (M)
##### 6.2.4.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to read threshold values on PEE
parameters for one monitored entity.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-007 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-008 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-009 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.4.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | PEEMonit | This parameter | | | | oredEntity.mEId | contains the | | | | | mEId of the | | | | | PEE | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | instance. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | th | O | List of | This parameter | | resholdNameList | | threshold names | contains the | | | | (in | list of | | | | PEEM | threshold names | | | | EConfiguration) | for the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity | | | | | instances, | | | | | where threshold | | | | | name | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name in | | | | | PEECon | | | | | figInformation. | | | | | If the list is | | | | | not provided, | | | | | name+value | | | | | pairs for all | | | | | thresholds of | | | | | the monitored | | | | | entity shall be | | | | | returned. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
##### 6.2.4.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | Name | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | mEId | M | PEEMonito | This parameter | | | | redEntity.mEId | contains the | | | | | mEId of the | | | | | PEEM | | | | | onitoredEntity | | | | | instance whose | | | | | threshold(s) | | | | | have been | | | | | read. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | threshol | M | List of | This parameter | | dNameValueList | | threshold name | contains the | | | | and value | list of | | | | pairs | threshold | | | | | name+value | | | | | pairs set for | | | | | the monitored | | | | | entity | | | | | instance, | | | | | where | | | | | threshold name | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name in | | | | | PEEConf | | | | | igInformation. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Opera | allInfor | | | | tionSucceeded, | mationReturned | | | | Op | is true, | | | | erationFailed) | status = | | | | | Opera | | | | | tionSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | ope | | | | | ration_failed | | | | | is true, | | | | | status = | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.2.4.1.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.4.1.5 Post-condition
allInformationReturned.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allInformationReturned For all thresholds of the
input parameter thresholdNameList, their names and values are returned. All
their values remain unchanged as the result of this operation.
* * *
##### 6.2.4.1.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is | | | invalid or the post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.4.2 Operation writeMEConfiguration (M)
##### 6.2.4.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to write threshold values on PEE
parameters of one monitored entity.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-007 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-008 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-009 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.4.2.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | List of | This parameter | | | | \ | of | | | | | PEE | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | instance whose | | | | | threshold(s) | | | | | are to be | | | | | written. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | thresho | M | List of | This parameter | | ldNameValueList | | threshold name | contains the | | | | and value pairs | list of | | | | | threshold | | | | | name+value | | | | | pairs for the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity | | | | | instance, where | | | | | threshold name | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name in | | | | | PEECon | | | | | figInformation. | | | | | | | | | | Each threshold | | | | | name+value pair | | | | | defines the | | | | | value of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | threshold. If | | | | | the value is | | | | | (a) crossed or | | | | | (b) reached, a | | | | | th | | | | | resholdCrossing | | | | | notification | | | | | shall be | | | | | emitted by the | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
##### 6.2.4.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | Name | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | mEId | M | PEEMonito | This parameter | | | | redEntity.mEId | contains the | | | | | Id of the | | | | | PEEM | | | | | onitoredEntity | | | | | instance whose | | | | | threshold(s) | | | | | have been | | | | | written. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | threshol | M | List of | This parameter | | dNameValueList | | threshold name | contains the | | | | and value | list of | | | | pairs | threshold | | | | | name+value | | | | | pairs set for | | | | | the monitored | | | | | entity | | | | | instance, | | | | | where | | | | | threshold name | | | | | corresponds to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name in | | | | | PEEConf | | | | | igInformation. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Opera | allInfor | | | | tionSucceeded, | mationReturned | | | | Op | is true, | | | | erationFailed) | status = | | | | | Opera | | | | | tionSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | ope | | | | | ration_failed | | | | | is true, | | | | | status = | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.2.4.2.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.4.2.5 Post-condition
allThresholdsCorrectlyModified.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition allThresholdsCorrectlyModified All thresholds of the
input parameter thresholdNameValueList have been correctly modified as
requested by this operation. All their values are returned.
* * *
##### 6.2.4.2.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is | | | invalid or the post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 6.2.5 CMONOperations_3 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.5.1 Operation createCMONPMJob (M)
##### 6.2.5.1.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to create a PEE measurement job on one
or more monitored entity(ies). The PEE measurement job starts immediately and
run indefinitely until a stopCMONPMJob request is received by IRPAgent.
The way the address of the entity to which notifications containing
measurement data are sent is provisioned, is not in the scope of this
document.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-001 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-002 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-003 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.5.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | Qualifier | Type / Legal | | | Name | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | mEIdList | M | List of | This parameter | | | | \ | list of mEIds | | | | | of | | | | | PEEM | | | | | onitoredEntity | | | | | instances | | | | | whose | | | | | measurement(s) | | | | | are to be | | | | | collected. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | measu | M | List of | This parameter | | rementNameList | | measurement | contains the | | | | names | list of names | | | | | of | | | | | measurements | | | | | to be | | | | | collected. | | | | | Each | | | | | measurement | | | | | name shall | | | | | correspond to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name of | | | | | PEEMe | | | | | asurementData. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | gra | M | A number of | It specifies | | nularityPeriod | | minutes. See | the period | | | | Comment for | between two | | | | legal values | successive | | | | | measurements. | | | | | The value can | | | | | be 5 minutes, | | | | | 15 minutes, 30 | | | | | minutes, 1 | | | | | hour, 12 hours | | | | | and 24 hours. | | | | | | | | | | The minimum | | | | | granularity | | | | | period is 5 | | | | | minutes in | | | | | most cases, | | | | | but for some | | | | | measurements | | | | | it may only | | | | | make sense to | | | | | collect data | | | | | in a larger | | | | | granularity | | | | | period. | | | | | | | | | | It also | | | | | specifies the | | | | | period between | | | | | two successive | | | | | emissions of | | | | | notifyM | | | | | easurementData | | | | | notifications. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.2.5.1.3 Output parameters
+-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+ | Parameter | Support | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | Name | Qualifier | | | | | | Information Type / | | | | | Legal Values | | +-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+ | jobId | M | Measurement job id | Unique identifier | | | | | of the measurement | | | | | job among all the | | | | | existing | | | | | measurement jobs in | | | | | a PEECMONIRP Agent | | | | | (located in XCU/DGU | | | | | or in VS-RMS or in | | | | | EM/DM). The | | | | | uniqueness is | | | | | guaranteed by the | | | | | Operator. | +-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | An operation may | | | | Failure, | fail because of a | | | | PartialSuccess) | specified (e.g. | | | | | invalid granularity | | | | | period, invalid | | | | | measurement name) | | | | | or unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+
##### 6.2.5.1.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.5.1.5 Post-condition
None.
##### 6.2.5.1.6 Exception
+-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is invalid. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.2.5.1.7 Constraints
None.
#### 6.2.5.2 Operation stopCMONPMJob (M)
##### 6.2.5.2.1 Definition
The IRPManager invokes this operation to stop an ongoing PEE measurement job
on one or more monitored entity(ies). The PEE measurement job stops
immediately.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-001 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-002 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-003 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.5.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment jobId
M Measurement job id Identifier of the measurement job among all the existing
measurement jobs in a PEECMONIRP Agent (located in XCU/DGU or in VS-RMS or in
EM/DM).
* * *
##### 6.2.5.2.3 Output parameters
+-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+ | Parameter | Support | Matching | Comment | | | | Information / | | | Name | Qualifier | | | | | | Information Type / | | | | | Legal Values | | +-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | An operation may | | | | Failure, | fail because of a | | | | PartialSuccess) | specified (e.g. | | | | | unknown job, job | | | | | cannot be stopped) | | | | | or unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+
##### 6.2.5.2.4 Pre-condition
None.
##### 6.2.5.2.5 Post-condition
cMONPMJobStopped.
* * *
Assertion Name Definition cMONPMJobStopped The PM job has been stopped.
* * *
##### 6.2.5.2.6 Exception
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Assertion Name | Definition | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | operation_failed | **Condition:** One of the input parameters is | | | invalid or the post-condition is not true. | | | | | | **Returned Information:** The output parameter | | | status. | | | | | | **Exit state:** Entry state. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.2.5.2.7 Constraints
None.
### 6.2.6 CMONNotifications_1 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.6.1 Notification notifyMeasurementData (M)
##### 6.2.6.1.1 Definition
The PEECMONIRP Agent notifies the PEECMONIRP Manager with measurement data.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-004 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-005 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-006 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.6.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M | | Unique | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | notification | | | | | among all the | | | | | notifications | | | | | issued by the | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent (located | | | | | in XCU/DGU or | | | | | in VS-RMS or in | | | | | EM/DM). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | not | M | | This is the | | ificationHeader | | | notification | | | | | header to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each such | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | version | | | | | indicator, the | | | | | name, type and | | | | | vendor name of | | | | | the sending | | | | | network node, | | | | | and a time | | | | | stamp | | | | | indicating the | | | | | time at which | | | | | the | | | | | notification is | | | | | sent by | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | "Measurement | | | otificationType | | data" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | jobId | M | Measurement job | Unique | | | | id | identifier of | | | | | the measurement | | | | | job. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measHeader | | | This is the | | | | | measurement | | | | | result | | | | | notification | | | | | header to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each such | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | version | | | | | indicator, the | | | | | name, type and | | | | | vendor name of | | | | | the sending | | | | | network node, | | | | | and a time | | | | | stamp | | | | | (\"collecti | | | | | onBeginTime\"). | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | \"collec | | | | | tionBeginTime\" | | | | | is a time stamp | | | | | that refers to | | | | | the start of | | | | | the first | | | | | measurement | | | | | collection | | | | | interval | | | | | (granularity | | | | | period) that is | | | | | covered by the | | | | | collected | | | | | measurement | | | | | results that | | | | | are sent in | | | | | this | | | | | notification. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measData | M | Measurement | It represents | | | | data | the sequence of | | | | | zero or more | | | | | measurement | | | | | result items. | | | | | It can be empty | | | | | in case no | | | | | measurement | | | | | data can be | | | | | provided. The | | | | | individual | | | | | \"measData\" | | | | | elements can | | | | | appear in any | | | | | order. | | | | | | | | | | Each | | | | | \"measData\" | | | | | element | | | | | contains the | | | | | mEId of the | | | | | PEE | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | instance, and | | | | | the list of | | | | | measurement | | | | | results | | | | | pertaining to | | | | | that | | | | | PEE | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | instance | | | | | (\"measInfo\"). | | | | | | | | | | Each "measInfo" | | | | | is a pair of | | | | | measurement | | | | | name | | | | | (\"measName\") | | | | | and the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | result(s) | | | | | (\ | | | | | "measValues\"). | | | | | | | | | | "measName" | | | | | shall | | | | | correspond to | | | | | an attribute | | | | | name in | | | | | PEEM | | | | | easurementData. | | | | | | | | | | \"measValues\" | | | | | contains the | | | | | list of | | | | | measurement | | | | | results for the | | | | | resource being | | | | | measured. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | measFooter | M | | The measurement | | | | | result | | | | | notification | | | | | footer to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | time stamp, | | | | | which refers to | | | | | the end of the | | | | | overall | | | | | measurement | | | | | collection | | | | | interval that | | | | | is covered by | | | | | the collected | | | | | measurement | | | | | results being | | | | | sent in this | | | | | notification. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.2.7 CMONNotifications_2 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.7.1 Notification notifyAlarm (M)
##### 6.2.7.1.1 Definition
The PEECMONIRP Agent notifies the PEECMONIRP Manager of a new alarm.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-010 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-011 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-012 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.7.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M | | Unique | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | notification | | | | | among all the | | | | | notifications | | | | | issued by the | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent (located | | | | | in XCU/DGU or | | | | | in VS-RMS or in | | | | | EM/DM). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | not | M | | This is the | | ificationHeader | | | notification | | | | | header to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each such | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | version | | | | | indicator, the | | | | | name, type and | | | | | vendor name of | | | | | the sending | | | | | network node, | | | | | and a time | | | | | stamp | | | | | indicating the | | | | | time at which | | | | | the | | | | | notification is | | | | | sent by | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | "Alarm | | | otificationType | | notification" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmId | M | | Unique alarm id | | | | | among alarm ids | | | | | generated by | | | | | the PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmTime | M | All values | It indicates | | | | indicating | the date and | | | | valid time. | time when the | | | | | alarm is raised | | | | | by the alarmed | | | | | PEE | | | | | MonitoredEntity | | | | | instance. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | alarmType | M | | See Event Types | | | | | in TS 32.111-2 | | | | | [8] -- Annex | | | | | A. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | pe | M | | Critical, | | rceivedSeverity | | | Major, Minor, | | | | | Warning, | | | | | Indeterminate, | | | | | Cleared: see | | | | | [10]. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | probableCause | M | | See Probable | | | | | Causes in TS | | | | | 32.111-2 [8] | | | | | -- Annex B. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | additionalText | O | N/A | It can carry | | | | | semantics that | | | | | is outside the | | | | | scope of this | | | | | IRP | | | | | specification. | | | | | It may provide | | | | | the | | | | | identification | | | | | of the site | | | | | from which the | | | | | alarm has been | | | | | originated. It | | | | | may contain | | | | | further | | | | | information on | | | | | the alarm. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.2.8 CMONNotifications_3 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.8.1 Notification notifyConfigurationChange (M)
##### 6.2.8.1.1 Definition
The PEECMONIRP Agent notifies the PEECMONIRP Manager of a change of
configuration.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-013 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-014 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-015 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.8.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M | | Unique | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | notification | | | | | among all the | | | | | notifications | | | | | issued by the | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent (located | | | | | in XCU/DGU or | | | | | in VS-RMS or in | | | | | EM/DM). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | not | M | | This is the | | ificationHeader | | | notification | | | | | header to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each such | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | version | | | | | indicator, the | | | | | name, type and | | | | | vendor name of | | | | | the sending | | | | | network node, | | | | | and a time | | | | | stamp | | | | | indicating the | | | | | time at which | | | | | the | | | | | notification is | | | | | sent by | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | "Configuration | | | otificationType | | Change | | | | | notification" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | mEId of the | This parameter | | | | PEE | contains the | | | | MonitoredEntity | identification | | | | instance. | of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | a | M | List of | This parameter | | ttNameValueList | | attribute name | contains a list | | | | (in | of attribute | | | | PE | name+value | | | | EMEDescription) | pairs of the | | | | and value pairs | monitored | | | | | entity, for | | | | | which a value | | | | | change | | | | | happened. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.2.9 CMONNotifications_4 Interface (M)
#### 6.2.9.1 Notification notifyThresholdCrossingOrReaching (M)
##### 6.2.9.1.1 Definition
The PEECMONIRP Agent notifies the PEECMONIRP Manager of a threshold crossing.
+----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | Referenced TS | Requirement label | Comment | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+ | 3GPP TS 28.304 [9] | REQ-EECMON-CON-013 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-014 | | | | | | | | REQ-EECMON-CON-015 | | +----------------------+--------------------+---------+
##### 6.2.9.1.2 Input parameters
+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Support | Information | Comment | | | | Type / Legal | | | Name | Qualifier | Values | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | notificationId | M | | Unique | | | | | identifier of | | | | | the | | | | | notification | | | | | among all the | | | | | notifications | | | | | issued by the | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent (located | | | | | in XCU/DGU or | | | | | in VS-RMS or in | | | | | EM/DM). | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | not | M | | This is the | | ificationHeader | | | notification | | | | | header to be | | | | | inserted in | | | | | each such | | | | | notification. | | | | | It includes a | | | | | version | | | | | indicator, the | | | | | name, type and | | | | | vendor name of | | | | | the sending | | | | | network node, | | | | | and a time | | | | | stamp | | | | | indicating the | | | | | time at which | | | | | the | | | | | notification is | | | | | sent by | | | | | PEECMONIRP | | | | | Agent. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n | M | "Threshold | | | otificationType | | crossing or | | | | | reaching | | | | | notification" | | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | mEId | M | mEId of the | This parameter | | | | PEE | contains the | | | | MonitoredEntity | identification | | | | instance. | of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | thresholdInfo | M | | It indicates | | | | | crossed | | | | | threshold | | | | | information | | | | | such as: | | | | | | | | | | • The name of | | | | | the threshold | | | | | (corresponding | | | | | to an attribute | | | | | of | | | | | PEECon | | | | | figInformation) | | | | | whose value has | | | | | crossed a | | | | | threshold, | | | | | | | | | | • The threshold | | | | | value, | | | | | | | | | | • The observed | | | | | value that have | | | | | crossed or | | | | | reached the | | | | | threshold | | | | | value. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
#