# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 28.307: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**TS 28.308: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
TS 28.309: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
One main motivation of mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience why the evaluation at the UE side is vital to network operators,
especially when the operators provide some real-time services which require
for example high date rate and low latency like streaming services (typically
video services).
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at session level on a number of UEs.
The operator can initiate logging of QoE information of an end user service.
The collected information (specified in Reference 3GPP TS 26.247 [4]) cannot
be deduced from performance measurements in the mobile network.
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE.
The collected QoE information is collected by the management system (e.g. an
Operations System (OS) in TMN terminology) for analysis and/or KPI
calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document addresses the operations and notifications for the
function Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection in UMTS and LTE.
The measurements that are collected are DASH [4] and MTSI [9] measurements.
The function includes collecting QoE information from UEs frequenting a
specified area.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.307: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.404: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.307:\"Telecommunication management; Management of Quality of
Experience (QoE) measurement collection Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 32.312:\"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management; Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.156:\"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service
(IS) template\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
TS 32.150 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] and TS 32.150 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
QoE Quality of Experience
QMC QoE Measurement Collection
# 4 System Overview
## 4.1 System context
The general definition of the System Context for the present IRP is found in
TS 32.150 [2] clause 4.7.
In addition, the set of related IRP(s) relevant to the present IRP is shown in
the two diagrams below.
Figure 4.1.1: System Context A
**Figure 4.1.2: System Context B**
## 4.2 Compliance rules
For general definitions of compliance rules related to qualifiers
(Mandatory/Optional/Conditional) for _operations_ , _notifications_ _and_
_parameters_ (of operations and notifications) please refer to TS 32.150 [2].
# 5 Information Object Classes
## 5.1 Imported and associated information entities
### 5.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [5], information object class, Top Top
TS 28.622 [5], information object class, IRPAgent IRPAgent TS 28.622 [5],
information object class, GenericIRP GenericIRP TS 32.302 [6], information
object class, NotificationIRP NotificationIRP TS 32.342 [7], information
object class, FileTransferIRP FileTransferIRP TS 32.602 [8], information
object class, ManagedEntity ManagedEntity
* * *
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Relationships
{width="6.302083333333333in" height="3.0104166666666665in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
{width="5.78125in" height="1.6875in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1
## 5.3 Class definitions
### 5.3.1 QMCJob
#### 5.3.1.1 Definition
It represents a task that controls the QMC and collects data from the
applications in the UE (i.e. collects the QMCReportContainer of multiple
ManagedEntity instances). The QoEReference is a unique ID, which identifies
the network request session that has been created by the QMCJob and activated
to one or multiple ManagedEntity instance(s).
When a QMCJob is created, none of attributes be modified via the Itf-N:
\- If for any reason the QMCIRP determines that a QMC session has been
activated in its ManagedEntity(ies) the QMCIRP shall emit the
\"noitfyQMCSessionLocalActivation\" notification to the subscribed IRPManagers
to inform the active QMC Sessions. The IRPManagers can decide whether they
deactivate the QMC session or keep the QMC session active. (E.g. if the
QoEReference is colliding with an existing QMCJob\'s QoEReference, the
IRPManager may decide to immediately deactivate the QMC session in that
ManagedEntity.)
The QMCJob shall use its information to activate and configure QMC session(s)
in the requested ManagedEntity instance(s). When the QMCIRP determines that
there are available QMCReport files, it shall emit a notification to all
subscribed IRPManagers informing the availability of the files. The method and
the notification of the available files is described in the File Transfer IRP
(TS 32.342 [7]).
\- If a QMCJob receives an indication from one of its ManagedEntity that
starting a network request session is failed for any reason, the
\"notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure\" notification may be emitted to inform
all subscribed IRPManagers that there was a network request session that was
not started in the ManagedEntity.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment TS 28.404 [10] REQ-EUSPC-CON-1  
TS 28.404 [10] REQ-EUSPC-CON-4  
TS 28.404 [10] REQ-EUSPC-CON-5  
TS 28.307 [11] REQ-EUSPC-FUN-1  
TS 28.307 [11] REQ-EUSPC-FUN-2
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable serviceType M T T T F areaScope M T T T F
qoECollectionEntityAddress M T T T F pLMNTarget M T T T F qMCTarget M T T T F
qoEReference M T T T F qMCConfigurationFile M T T T F
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 5.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
#### 5.3.1.5 State diagram
None.
### 5.3.2 QMCRecord
#### 5.3.2.1 Definition
TQMCRecord is the representation of the files containing the information from
the network request session.
#### 5.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Visibility Support Qualifier Read Qualifier Write Qualifier
fileName + M M -
* * *
### 5.3.3 QMCIRP
#### 5.3.3.1 Definition
QMCIRP is the representation of the QMC management capabilities specified by
the present document. This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified
in TS 32.312 [12].
### 5.3.4 ManagedEntity
#### 5.3.4.1 Definition
For area based QMC the ManagedEntity represents the role that can be played by
an instance of the following IOCs:
\- UtranCell
\- E-UtranCell
## 5.4 Information relationship definitions
### 5.4.1 relation-qMCIRP-qMCJob (M)
#### 5.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between QMCIRP and the QMCJob.
#### 5.4.1.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theQMCIRP It represents the QMCIRP theQMCJobList It represents
the QMCJobList
* * *
### 5.4.2 relation-qMCJob-managedEntity (M)
#### 5.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between QMCJob and the ManagedEntity.
#### 5.4.2.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theManagedEntity The ManagedEntity, when playing this role,
represents the actual network resource instance, where a network request
session is activated. theQMCJob It represents the QMCJob
* * *
### 5.4.3 relation-qMCJob-qMCRecord (M)
#### 5.4.3.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between QMCJob and the QMCRecord.
#### 5.4.3.2 Roles
* * *
Name Definition theQMCJob It represents the QMCJob theQMCRecord It represents
the QMCRecord.
* * *
## 5.5 Attribute definitions
### 5.5.1 Attribute properties
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | serviceType | It identifies an | type: Integer | | | individual UE for a | | | | specified end user | multiplicity: 1 | | | service/end user | | | | service type. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: DASH | isUnique: N/A | | | (0), MTSI (1) | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | areaScope | The area scope | type: String | | | parameter defines | | | | the area in terms of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | cells or Tracking | | | | Area/Routing | isOrdered: N/A | | | Area/Location Area | | | | where the QMC shall | isUnique: True | | | take place. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: | | | | | isNullable: False | | | The area scope | | | | parameter in UMTS is | | | | either: | | | | | | | | - List of cells, | | | | identified by CGI. | | | | Maximum 32 CGI can | | | | be defined. | | | | | | | | - List of Routing | | | | Area, identified by | | | | RAI. Maximum of 8 | | | | RAIs can be defined. | | | | | | | | - List of Location | | | | Area, identified by | | | | LAI. Maximum of 8 | | | | LAIs can be defined. | | | | | | | | The area scope | | | | parameter in LTE is | | | | either: | | | | | | | | - list of cells, | | | | identified by | | | | E-UTRAN-CGI. Maximum | | | | 32 CGI can be | | | | defined. | | | | | | | | - List of Tracking | | | | Area, identified by | | | | TAC. Maximum of 8 | | | | TAC can be defined. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | qoECol | It indicates the IP | type: String | | lectionEntityAddress | address to which the | | | | QMC records shall be | multiplicity: 1 | | | transferred. Ipv4 or | | | | Ipv6 address(es) may | isOrdered: N/A | | | be used. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | pLMNTarget | This parameter | type: PLMNId | | | defines the PLMN for | | | | which sessions shall | multiplicity: 1 | | | be selected in the | | | | network request | isOrdered: N/A | | | session in case of | | | | area based QMC when | isUnique: N/A | | | several PLMNs are | | | | supported in the RAN | defaultValue: None | | | (this means that | | | | shared cells and not | isNullable: False | | | shared cells are | | | | allowed for the | | | | specified PLMN. | | | | Furthermore, several | | | | PLMNs can be used | | | | for not shared RAN | | | | cases as well as for | | | | shared RAN cases.). | | | | Only the sessions | | | | may be selected | | | | where the PLMN that | | | | the UE reports as | | | | selected PLMN is the | | | | same as the PLMN | | | | Target. | | | | | | | | Note that the PLMN | | | | Target might differ | | | | from the PLMN | | | | specified in the | | | | Network Request | | | | Session Id, as that | | | | specifies the PLMN | | | | that is containing | | | | the management | | | | system requesting | | | | the network request | | | | session from the NE. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | qMCTarget | The QMC target | type: Integer | | | parameter specifies | | | | it the QMC is area | multiplicity: 1 | | | based or individual | | | | UE based. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | > \- Area based QMC | isUnique: N/A | | | > (0) | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | NOTE: Individual UE | | | | based QMC is not | isNullable: False | | | supported in this | | | | release. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: ... | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | qoEReference | The QoE reference | type: String | | | parameter specify | | | | the network request | multiplicity: 1 | | | session. The QoE | | | | reference shall be | isOrdered: N/A | | | globally unique | | | | therefore it is | isUnique: N/A | | | composed as follows: | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | MCC+MNC+QMC ID, | | | | where the MCC and | isNullable: False | | | MNC are coming with | | | | the QMC activation | | | | request from the | | | | management system to | | | | identify one PLMN | | | | containing the | | | | management system, | | | | and QMC ID is a 3 | | | | byte Octet String. | | | | | | | | The QMC ID is | | | | generated by the | | | | management system or | | | | the operator. | | | | | | | | It is used to | | | | identify the QoE | | | | measurement | | | | collection job in | | | | the traffic nodes | | | | and in the | | | | measurement | | | | collection centre. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | qMCConfigurationFile | The QMC | type: String | | | configuration file | | | | is a container that | multiplicity: 1 | | | is specified in | | | | TS 26.247 and | isOrdered: N/A | | | TS 26.114 | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
Each interface is defined in one or more UML compliant class diagrams (see
also TS 32.156 [13]).
## 6.2 Generic rules
Rule 1: each operation with at least one input parameter supports a pre-
condition valid_input_parameter which indicates that all input parameters
shall be valid with regards to their information type. Additionally, each such
operation supports an exception operation_failed_invalid_input_parameter which
is raised when pre-condition valid_input_parameter is false. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 2: Each operation with at least one optional input parameter supports a
set of pre-conditions supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy where \"yyy\" is
the name of the optional input parameter and the\ pre-condition indicates that
the operation supports the named optional input parameter. Additionally, each
such operation supports an exception
operation_failed_unsupported_optional_input_parameter_yyy which is raised when
(a) the pre-condition supported_optional_input_parameter_yyy is false and (b)
the named optional input parameter is carrying information. The exception has
the same entry and exit state.
Rule 3: each operation shall support a generic exception
operation_failed_internal_problem which is raised when an internal problem
occurs and that the operation cannot be completed. The exception has the same
entry and exit state.
NOTE: These rules are mapped at the solution set level. Pre-conditions and
exceptions, generated by these rules, need not appear explicitly in the
present document.
## 6.3 QoEIRPManagement Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 Operation activateAreaQMCJob (M)
#### 6.3.1.1 Definition
This operation support IRPManager\'s request to create an AreaQMCJob through
Itf-N.
Once the AreaQMCJob has been created, the attributes of the QMCJob will not be
modified during the lifetime of the QMCJob.
One QMCJob can manage network request sessions in one or more ManagedEntity.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment TS 28.307 [3] **REQ-EUSPC-FUN-1**
* * *
#### 6.3.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Information type Comment iOCInstance M
ManagedEntity.objectInstance It specifies the DN of ManagedEntity instance
where QMC session is to be activated. qoEReference M QMCJob.qoeReference It
identifies the QMC Session. qMCTarget M QMCJob.qMCTarget It specifies if the
QMC is areabased or individual UE based. In the present release only area
based is supported. qoECollectionEntityAddress M
QMCJob.qoECollectionEntityAddress It specifies the address to the QoE
Collection Entity that is associated to the QMCJob. See TS 32.422 [9].
serviceType M QMCJob.serviceType It specifies which service is to record
information. areaScope M QMCJob.areaScope It specifies the area
(Cells/TA/RA/LA) where the QoE measurements shall be collected. pLMNTarget CM
QMCJob.pLMNTarget It specifies which PLMN that the subscriber of the session
to be recorded uses as selected PLMN. qMCConfigurationFile M
QMCJob.qMCConfiguration.File It specifies the configuration of the QoE
measurement to be recorded. See TS 26.247 [4] for DASH and TS 26.114 [9] for
MTSI.
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment status M ENUM (Success,
Failure, PartialSuccess)  
unsupportedList M List of \ | identification | | | | | of each | | | | | activated | | | | | network request | | | | | session. | | | | | | | | | | If no | | | | | qoEReference | | | | | can be found, | | | | | then this list | | | | | is empty and | | | | | status is | | | | | \"Success\" | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+ | status | M | ENUM (Success, | The operation | | | | Failure) | may fail | | | | | because of a | | | | | specified or an | | | | | unspecified | | | | | reason. | +-----------------+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+
### 6.3.5 Notification notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure (O)
#### 6.3.5.1 Definition
The QMCIRP notifies all subscribed IRPManagers and the QoE Collection Entity
if a network request session in a ManagedEntity has not been started due to
any problem.
#### 6.3.5.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifiers Matching Information Comment objectClass M,Y
QMCIRP.objectClass Notification header objectInstance M,Y
QMCIRP.objectInstance Notification header eventTime M,Y -- Notification header
notificationType M,Y \"notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure\" Notification
header systemDN M,Y -- Notification header notificationID O,Y -- Notification
header qoEReference M,Y QMCJob.qoEReference  
reason O,N --
* * *
#### 6.3.5.3 Triggering event
##### 6.3.5.3.1 From state
problemInManagedEntity
* * *
Assertion Name Definition problemInManagedEntity Because of a problem the
ManagedEntity cannot start a network request session.
* * *
##### 6.3.5.3.2 To state
NetworkRequestSessionFailureReported
* * *
Assertion Name Definition NetworkRequestSessionFailureReported The
\"notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure\" notification is emitted to the
subscribed IRPManager(s).
* * *
#