# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 28.301: Telecommunication management; LSA controller (LC) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**TS 28.302: Telecommunication management; LSA controller (LC) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
TS 28.303: Telecommunication management; LSA controller (LC) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the LSA controller (LC) Integration Reference
Point (IRP) management operations and notifications that can be communicated
between an IRPAgent and one or several IRPManagers.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of operations,
notifications and their parameters visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI TS 103 379 (V1.1.1): \"Reconfigurable Radio Systems (RRS);
Information elements and protocols for the interface between LSA Controller
(LC) and LSA Repository (LR) for operation of Licensed Shared Access (LSA) in
the 2300 MHz-2400 MHz band\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.668: \"Telecommunication management; Radio Planning Tool Access
(RPTA) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] ETSI TS 103 235 (V1.1.1): \"Reconfigurable Radio Systems (RRS); System
architecture and high level procedures for operation of Licensed Shared Access
(LSA) in the 2300 MHz-2400 MHz band\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.301: \"Telecommunication Management; Licensed Shared Access
(LSA) Controller (LC) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**LSRAI Context:** See definition in ETSI TS 103 379 [2].
**LSA~1~:** See definition in ETSI TS 103 235 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
LC LSA Controller
LR LSA Repository
LSRAI LSA Spectrum Resource Availability Information
NM Network Manager
# 4 System overview
## 4.1 System Context
### 4.1.1 System Context for scenario 1
Figure 4.1.1.1 shows the System Context for scenario 1. The LC and NM can play
both the roles of IRPAgent and IRPManager for operations and notifications of
the LSA IRP.
Figure 4.1.1.1: System Context for LC IRP (scenario 1)
### 4.1.2 System Context for scenario 2
Figure 4.1.2.1 shows the System Context for scenario 1. The LC and NM can play
both the roles of IRPAgent and IRPManager for operations and notifications of
the LSA IRP.
Figure 4.1.2.1: System Context for LC IRP (scenario 2)
# 5 Model
## 5.1 Imported and associated information entities
### 5.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
None.
### 5.1.1 Associated information entities and local labels
None.
## 5.2 Class diagram
### 5.2.1 Relationships
#### 5.2.1.1 Relationships for scenario 1
Figure 5.2.1.1.1: Information Model of the LSA controller IRP for the
interface OperationsInvokedByNM and the interface NotificationsEmittedByLC
(scenario 1)
Figure 5.2.1.1.2: Information Model of the LSA controller IRP for the
interface OperationsInvokedByLC and the interface NotificationsEmittedByNM
(scenario 1)
An instance of this model is always related to a particular instance of the
Type 7 interface between a LC and a LR. Identifiers are unique within this
scope. In case the NM has multiple instances of the Type 7 interface to
multiple LCs, identifiers for zones as allocated by the LR may be overlapping.
The NM may have to add prefixes to identifiers of zones, whose value depends
on the interface instance on which information is exchanged with the LC, to
integrate these (extended) identifiers into its namespace or make them
globally unique.
#### 5.2.1.2 Relationships for scenario 2
Figure 5.2.1.2.1: Information Model of the LSA controller IRP (scenario 2)
### 5.2.2 Inheritance
#### 5.2.2.1 Inheritance for scenario 1
There is no inheritance.
#### 5.2.2.2 Inheritance for scenario 2
There is no inheritance.
## 5.3 Class definitions
### 5.3.1 Class definitions for scenario 1
#### 5.3.1.1 LSRAIContextLC
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents the LSRAI context as seen by the NM in the LC.
##### 5.3.1.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable licenseeId M M - - M lRId M M - - M lCId M M - - M
* * *
#### 5.3.1.2 ZoneLC
##### 5.3.1.2.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents a zone as seen by the NM in the LC.
##### 5.3.1.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable zoneId M M - - M zoneType M M - - M frequency M M - - M
radioConstraints M M - - M space M M - - M time M M - - M
* * *
#### 5.3.1.3 LSRAIContextNM
##### 5.3.1.3.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents the LSRAI context as seen by the LC in the NM.
##### 5.3.1.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable licenseeId M M - - M lRId M M - - M lCId M M - - M
* * *
#### 5.3.1.4 ZoneNM
##### 5.3.1.4.1 Definition
This Support IOC represents a zone as seen by the LC in the NM.
##### 5.3.1.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable zoneId M M - - M zoneStatus M M - - M
* * *
### 5.3.2 Class definitions for scenario 2
### 5.3.2.1 LSACell
#### 5.3.2.1.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents a cell.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 REQ-LC-IRP-SC2-FUN-002
* * *
#### 5.3.2.1.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** cellId M M O - - geographicalArea M M O - -
maxAllowedEIRP M M O - - minAllowedEIRP M M O - - maxAllowedAntennaAltitude O
M O - - minAllowedAntennaAltitude O M O - - maxAllowedAntennaTilt O M O - -
minAllowedAntennaTilt O M O - - antennaPatternLabel O M O - - antennaType O M
O - -
* * *
#### 5.3.2.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.2.1.4 Notifications
None.
### 5.3.2.2 LSACellConstraints
#### 5.3.2.2.1 Definition
This SupportIOC represents constraints on parameters of a cell operating on
LSA frequencies.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC2-FUN-001
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2.2 Attributes
* * *
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadable** **isWritable**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable** cellId M M M - - maxAllowedEIRP M M M - -
maxLeadTime O M M - -
* * *
#### 5.3.2.2.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 5.3.2.2.4 Notifications
None.
## 5.4 Attribute definitions
### 5.4.1 Attribute definitions for scenario 1
#### 5.4.1.1 Attribute properties
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | lCId | Identifier of the LC | type: Integer | | | used on LSA1, as | | | | defined in ETSI TS 103 | multiplicity: 1 | | | 379 [2] | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: False | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | lRId | Identifier of the LR | type: Integer | | | used on LSA1, as | | | | defined in ETSI TS 103 | multiplicity: 1 | | | 379 [2] | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: False | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | frequency | The frequency range of | type: \> | | | the zone. The type is | | | | a structure with the | multiplicity: 1 | | | following fields | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | - lowerFrequency | | | | | isUnique: False | | | - upperFrequency | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | The fields are defined | default value | | | in ETSI TS 103 379 | | | | [2]. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | licenseeId | Identifier of the | type: Integer | | | licensee used on LSA1, | | | | as defined in ETSI TS | multiplicity: 1 | | | 103 379 [2] | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: False | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | radioConstraints | The description of the | type: \> | | | radio constraints | | | | applying to a zone. | multiplicity: 1 | | | The type is a | | | | structure with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | following fields: | | | | | isUnique: False | | | - radioConstr | | | | aintsProfileIdentifier | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | - prote | | | | ctionHeightAboveGround | isNullable: False | | | | | | | - | | | | maximumFieldStrength | | | | | | | | - frequencyInterval | | | | | | | | - maximumA | | | | pplicableAntennaHeight | | | | | | | | - EIRPRestriction | | | | | | | | - ACS | | | | | | | | The fields are defined | | | | in ETSI TS 103 379 | | | | [2]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | space | The description of the | type: \> | | | geographical area of a | | | | zone. The type is a | multiplicity: 1 | | | structure with the | | | | following fields: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - switch | isUnique: False | | | | | | | - circle | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | - polygon | | | | | isNullable: False | | | - area descriptor | | | | | | | | The value of switch | | | | indicates if the | | | | information in circle, | | | | polygon or area | | | | descriptor shall be | | | | used. | | | | | | | | Circle, polygon and | | | | area descriptor are | | | | defined in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 379 [2]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | time | The description of | type: \> | | | when the zone is | | | | operational. The type | multiplicity: 1 | | | is a structure with | | | | the following fields: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - switch | isUnique: False | | | | | | | - periodicSchedule | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | - aperiodicSchedule | | | | | isNullable: False | | | The value of the | | | | switch indicates if | | | | the information | | | | periodicSchedule or | | | | aperiodicSchedule | | | | shall be used. | | | | | | | | The schedule types are | | | | defined in ETSI | | | | TS 103 379 [2]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | zoneId | The identifier of a | type: Integer | | | zone, as defined in | | | | ETSI TS 103 379 [2]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: False | | | | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | | default value | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | zoneStatus | The conformation | type: | | | status of a zone, as | \> | | | defined in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 379 [2]. In a | multiplicity: 1 | | | confirmed zone, | | | | configuration changes | isOrdered: N/A | | | in | | | | | isUnique: False | | | the MFCN (if needed) | | | | have been applied | defaultValue: | | | according to | notConfirmed | | | previously received | | | | LSRAI. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | confirmed, | | | | notConfirmed | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | zoneType | The type of a zone as | type: Integer | | | defined in ETSI TS 103 | | | | 379 [2]. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | following values shall | | | | be used: | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"0\" - Exclusion | isUnique: False | | | Zone. | | | | | defaultValue: No | | | \"1\" - Restriction | default value | | | Zone. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | \"2\" - Protection | | | | Zone. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0,1,2 | | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
#### 5.4.1.2 Constraints
None.
### 5.4.2 Attribute definitions for scenario 2
#### 5.4.2.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the attributes that are present in the Support
Object Classes of the present document.
+-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | cellId | NM defined cell | type: String | | | identifier. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | geographicalArea | Geographical area, as | type: Set types | | | defined in TS 23.032 | | | | [4]. It describes | multiplicity: 1 | | | the area in which the | | | | antenna is located. | isOrdered: N/A | | | The antenna can be | | | | located in any point | isUnique: N/A | | | inside this area. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | maxAllowedEIRP | Maximum EIRP allowed, | type: Integer | | | expressed in dBm. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | For EIRP reference: | | | | TS 25.105 [3] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | minAllowedEIRP | Minimum EIRP allowed, | type: Integer | | | expressed in dBm. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | For EIRP reference: | | | | TS 25.105 [3] | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | maxA | The max elevation of | type: Integer | | llowedAntennaAltitude | the antenna above sea | | | | level. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: An | isOrdered: N/A | | | integral value | | | | representing a number | isUnique: N/A | | | of meters in 0.1 | | | | meter increments. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | Reference: TS 28.668 | isNullable: False | | | [5] | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | minA | The min elevation of | type: Integer | | llowedAntennaAltitude | the antenna above sea | | | | level. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: An | isOrdered: N/A | | | integral value | | | | representing a number | isUnique: N/A | | | of meters in 0.1 | | | | meter increments. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | Reference: TS 28.668 | isNullable: False | | | [5] | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | maxAllowedAntennaTilt | The max tit of the | type: Integer | | | antenna | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: | | | | (0..360) | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Max value for | isUnique: N/A | | | an | | | | tennaMechanicalOffset | defaultValue: None | | | as described in TS | | | | 28.668 [5] | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | minAllowedAntennaTilt | The min tit of the | type: Integer | | | antenna | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: | | | | (0..360) | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | Min value for | isUnique: N/A | | | an | | | | tennaMechanicalOffset | defaultValue: None | | | as described in TS | | | | 28.668 [5] | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | antennaPatternLabel | The radiation pattern | type: String | | | of the antenna, also | | | | referred to as | multiplicity: 1 | | | antenna pattern. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | Reference: TS 28.668 | | | | [5] | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+ | antennaType | The type of the | type: String | | | antenna. Types are | | | | e.g. repeaters, | multiplicity: 1 | | | remote antennas, | | | | power dividers. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Reference: TS 28.668 | defaultValue: None | | | [5] | | | | | isNullable: False | +-----------------------+-----------------------+--------------------+
#### 5.4.2.2 Constraints
None.
# 6 Interface Definition
## 6.1 Class diagram representing interfaces
### 6.1.1 Class diagram representing interfaces for scenario 1
Figure 6.1.1-1: Class diagram representing the interface OperationsInvokedByNM
and the interface NotificationsEmittedByLC (scenario 1)
Figure 6.1.1-2: Class diagram representing the interface OperationsInvokedByLC
and the interface NotificationsEmittedByNM (scenario 1)
### 6.1.2 Class diagram representing interfaces for scenario 2
Figure 6.1.2-1: Class diagram representing the interface OperationsInvokedByNM
and the interface NotificationsEmittedByLC (scenario 2)
Figure 6.1.2-2: Class diagram representing the interface OperationsInvokedByLC
and the interface NotificationsEmittedByNM (scenario 2)
## 6.3 OperationsInvokedByNM Interface (M)
### 6.3.1 OperationsInvokedbyNM Interface (M) for scenario 1
#### 6.3.1.1 Operation requestLcRegistration (M)
##### 6.3.1.1.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to request the LC to register with the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-001
* * *
##### 6.3.1.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
licenseeId M LSRAIContextNM.licenseeId Uniquely identifies the LSA Licensee
lCId M LSRAIContextNM.lCId Uniquely identifies the LC lRId M
LSRAIContextNM.lRId Uniquely identifies the LR
* * *
##### 6.3.1.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | licenseeId | M | LSRAIContex | Uniquely | | | | tLC.licenseeId | identifies the | | | | | LSA Licensee | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lCId | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lRId | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | cause | O | INTEGER | Indicates | | | | | cause of | | | | | registration | | | | | failure. Cause | | | | | values are | | | | | specified in | | | | | ETSI TS 103 | | | | | 379 [2]. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | Indicates | | | | (Opera | success or | | | | tionSucceeded, | failure | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.1.2 Operation requestLcDeregistration (M)
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to request the LC to deregister from the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-003
* * *
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment lCId
M LSRAIContextNM.lCId Uniquely identifies the LC lRId M LSRAIContextNM.lRId
Uniquely identifies the LR
* * *
##### 6.3.1.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lCId | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lRId | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | cause | O | INTEGER | Indicates | | | | | cause of | | | | | deregistration | | | | | failure. Cause | | | | | values are | | | | | specified in | | | | | ETSI TS 103 | | | | | 379 [2]. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | result | M | ENUM | Indicates | | | | (Opera | success or | | | | tionSucceeded, | failure | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.1.3 Operation getLSRAI (M)
##### 6.3.1.3.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to get LSRAI for the scoped subset of zones in
an LSRAI context.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-005
* * *
##### 6.3.1.3.2 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment scope
M LIST OF zoneId This parameter defines the subset of zones to be returned.
The absence of an input parameter is equivalent to all zones under LSRAI.
* * *
##### 6.3.1.3.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lSRAI | M | LIST OF Zone | This parameter | | | | instances | returns the | | | | | scoped Zone | | | | | instances | | | | | under LSRAI. | | | | | The data | | | | | structure is | | | | | described by | | | | | the | | | | | information | | | | | model | | | | | specified in | | | | | subclause 5. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | If | | | | (Opera | allScopedPlann | | | | tionSucceeded, | edDataReturned | | | | Op | is true, | | | | erationFailed) | status = | | | | | Opera | | | | | tionSucceeded. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | ope | | | | | ration_failed | | | | | is true, | | | | | status = | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.3.2 OperationsInvokedByNM Interface (M) for scenario 2
### 6.3.2.1 Operation cellsUpdate (M)
#### 6.3.2.1.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to provide the LC with information about
created, deleted or modified cells operating on LSA frequencies.
Note: it is assumed that prior to invoking this operation:
\- cells operating on LSA frequencies have been identified by the operator,
and
\- the LC is connected to the LR and has received up-to-date LSRAI information
from the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC2-FUN-006
* * *
#### 6.3.2.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter |** Support | **Information |** Comment**| | Name** | Qualifier**| Type / Legal | | | | | Values** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | addedLSACells | O | LIST OF | This parameter | | | | LSACell | contains a | | | | | list of | | | | | instances of | | | | | the LSACell | | | | | class. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | mo | O | LIST OF | This parameter | | difiedLSACells | | LSACell | contains a | | | | | list of | | | | | instances of | | | | | the LSACell | | | | | class. | | | | | | | | | | Each LSACell | | | | | instance | | | | | within this | | | | | list contains | | | | | only the | | | | | parameters and | | | | | corresponding | | | | | values that | | | | | need to be | | | | | updated by the | | | | | LC, and the | | | | | attribute | | | | | cellId. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | r | O | LIST OF | This parameter | | emovedLSACells | | LSACell.cellId | contains a | | | | | list of | | | | | cellId(s), | | | | | indicating | | | | | which cells to | | | | | delete. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.3.2.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter |** Support | **Matching |** Comment**| | Name** | Qualifier**| Information | | | | | /** | | | | | | | | | | **Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | The LC returns | | | | (Opera | Ope | | | | tionSucceeded, | rationSucceded | | | | Op | if all | | | | erationFailed) | requested | | | | | changes have | | | | | been executed | | | | | by the LC. | | | | | | | | | | Otherwise | | | | | (e.g., in case | | | | | of a missing | | | | | parameter or | | | | | of an unknown | | | | | cellId), the | | | | | LC returns | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | | | | | In that case, | | | | | the LC has not | | | | | modifed, added | | | | | or deleted any | | | | | LSACell. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.3.2.2 Operation cellsConstraintsSatisfied (M)
#### 6.3.2.2.1 Definition
The NM invokes this operation to indicate to the LC that the constraints on
cells parameters provided in the message cellsConstraintsUpdate are accepted
and satisfied.
For each confirmed cell, the NM shall include a LSACellConstraints instance in
the cellsConstraintsUpdate operation. After receiving a response to this
operation with the status parameter set to OperationSucceeded, the NM is
allowed to activate each confirmed cell.
Note 1: The NM may invoke this operation multiple times to confirm constraints
on different cells at different points in time.
Note 2: The NM does not need to invoke this operation for cells on which the
LC did not provide any constraint.
#### 6.3.2.2.2 Input parameters
* * *
**Parameter Name** **Support Qualifier** **Information Type / Legal Values**
**Comment** cellsConstraints M LIST OF LSACellConstraints This parameter
contains a list of instances of the LSACellConstraints class.
* * *
#### 6.3.2.2.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter |** Support | **Matching |** Comment**| | Name** | Qualifier**| Information | | | | | /** | | | | | | | | | | **Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | The LC returns | | | | (Opera | Ope | | | | tionSucceeded, | rationSucceded | | | | Op | if the | | | | erationFailed) | operation was | | | | | successfully | | | | | handled. | | | | | | | | | | Otherwise | | | | | (e.g., in case | | | | | of a missing | | | | | parameter or | | | | | of an unknown | | | | | cellId), the | | | | | LC returns | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.4 OperationsInvokedByLC Interface (M)
### 6.4.1 OperationsInvokedByLC Interface (M) for scenario 1
#### 6.4.1.1 Operation getLSRAIConfirmation (M)
The LC invokes this operation to get confirmation from the NM that
configuration changes in the MFCN (if needed) have been applied according to
previously received LSRAI.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [8] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-007
* * *
##### 6.4.1.1.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Support Qualifier Information Type / Legal Values Comment
* * *
##### 6.4.1.1.2 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | con | M | LIST OF | This parameter | | firmedZoneList | | LSRAICo | contains a | | | | ntextNM.zoneId | list of | | | | | zoneId's with | | | | | confirmed | | | | | LSRAI. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.4.2 OperationsInvokedByLC Interface (M) for scenario 2
### 6.4.2.1 Operation cellsConstraintsUpdate (M)
#### 6.4.2.1.1 Definition
The LC invokes this operation to provide the NM with constraints on parameters
of cells operating on LSA frequencies.
The LC shall initiate a cellsConstraintsUpdate operation upon one of the
following events:
\- a change in LSA spectrum resource availability (e.g., LSRAI received from
the LR), or
\- a successful cellUpdate operation.
Following a successful cellUpdate operation, the LC shall provide constraints
for all cells that were added or modified by the NM. In case the LC does not
define any constraints on a given cell, the LSACellConstraints instance
associated with this cell only includes the attribute cellId. This information
enables the NM to know that this given cell can be activated.
If the parameter maxLeadTime is included in a given LSACellConstraints
instance, the NM shall confirm that the constraints provided in this instance
are satisfied within maxLeadTime seconds.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-005
* * *
#### 6.4.2.1.2 Input parameters
* * *
**Parameter Name** **Support Qualifier** **Information Type / Legal Values**
**Comment** cellsConstraints M LIST OF LSACellConstraints This parameter
contains a list of instances of the LSACellConstraints class.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.1.3 Output parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter |** Support | **Matching |** Comment**| | Name** | Qualifier**| Information | | | | | /** | | | | | | | | | | **Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | status | M | ENUM | The NM returns | | | | (Opera | Ope | | | | tionSucceeded, | rationSucceded | | | | Op | if all | | | | erationFailed) | requested | | | | | changes have | | | | | been executed | | | | | by the NM. | | | | | | | | | | Otherwise | | | | | (e.g., in case | | | | | of a missing | | | | | parameter or | | | | | an unknown | | | | | cellId), the | | | | | NM returns | | | | | Op | | | | | erationFailed. | | | | | In that case | | | | | the NM has not | | | | | modified any | | | | | constraints. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.5 NotificationsEmittedByNM Interface (M)
### 6.5.1 NotificationsEmittedByNM Interface (M) for scenario 1
#### 6.5.1.1 Notification notifyLSRAIConfirmation (M)
##### 6.5.1.1.1 Definition
The NM emits this notification to notify the LC that configuration changes in
the MFCN (if needed) have been applied according to previously received LSRAI.
Each notification can carry information about one or more confirmed zones.
Information about a confirmed zone is sent only once in a notification. It is
up to the implementation of the IRPAgent to decide how to group information
about confirmed zones in notifications.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-007
* * *
##### 6.5.1.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifiers | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | con | M | LIST OF | This parameter | | firmedZoneList | | LSRAICo | contains a | | | | ntextNM.zoneId | list of | | | | | zoneId's with | | | | | confirmed | | | | | LSRAI. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.5.2 NotificationsEmittedByNM Interface (M) for scenario 2
None.
## 6.6 NotificationsEmittedByLC Interface (M)
### 6.6.1 NotificationsEmittedByLC Interface (M) for scenario 1
#### 6.6.1.1 Notification notifyLCRegistration
##### 6.6.1.1.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about the completion of the
registration of the LC with the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-002
* * *
##### 6.6.1.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | licenseeId | M | LSRAIContex | Uniquely | | | | tLC.licenseeId | identifies the | | | | | LSA Licensee | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lCId | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lRId | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.6.1.2 Notification notifyLCDeRegistration
##### 6.6.1.2.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about the completion of the
de-registration of the LC with the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-004
* * *
##### 6.6.1.2.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | licenseeId | M | LSRAIContex | Uniquely | | | | tLC.licenseeId | identifies the | | | | | LSA Licensee | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lCId | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | LSRAI | Uniquely | | | | ContextLC.lRId | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.6.1.3 Notification notifyZoneCreation (M)
##### 6.6.1.3.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about created ZoneLC
instances. Each notification can carry information about one or more ZoneLC
instances. Information about a created ZoneLC instance is sent only once in a
notification. It is up to the implementation of the IRPAgent to decide how to
group information about Zone instances in notifications.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-006
* * *
##### 6.6.1.3.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lSRAI | M | LIST OF ZoneLC | This parameter | | | | instances | contains | | | | | information | | | | | about Zone | | | | | instances that | | | | | have been | | | | | created. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.6.1.4 Notification notifyZoneDeletion (M)
##### 6.6.1.4.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about deleted ZoneLC
instances. Each notification can carry information about one or more Zone
instances. Information about a deleted ZoneLC instance is sent only once in a
notification. It is up to the implementation of the IRPAgent to decide how to
group information about ZoneLC instances in notifications.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-006
* * *
##### 6.6.1.4.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lSRAI | M | LIST OF ZoneLC | This parameter | | | | instances | contains | | | | | information | | | | | about Zone | | | | | instances that | | | | | have been | | | | | deleted. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.6.1.5 Notification notifyZoneModification (M)
##### 6.6.1.5.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about modified ZoneLC
instances. Each notification can carry information about one or more Zone
instances. Information about a modified ZoneLC instance is sent only once in a
notification. It is up to the implementation of the IRPAgent to decide how to
group information about ZoneLC instances in notifications.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC1-FUN-006
* * *
##### 6.6.1.5.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lSRAI | M | LIST OF ZoneLC | This parameter | | | | instances | contains | | | | | information | | | | | about Zone | | | | | instances that | | | | | have been | | | | | modified. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.6.2 NotificationsEmittedByLC Interface (M) for scenario 2
#### 6.6.2.1 Notification notifyLCRegistration (M)
##### 6.6.2.1.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about the completion of the
registration of the LC with the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC2-FUN-002
* * *
##### 6.6.2.1.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | licenseeId | M | licenseeId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LSA Licensee | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | lCId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | lRId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 6.6.2.2 Notification notifyLCDeRegistration (M)
##### 6.6.2.2.1 Definition
The LC emits this notification to notify the NM about the completion of the
de-registration of the LC with the LR.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.301 [7] REQ-LC-IRP-
SC2-FUN-004
* * *
##### 6.6.2.2.2 Input parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter Name | Support | Matching | Comment | | | Qualifier | Information / | | | | | | | | | | Information | | | | | Type / Legal | | | | | Values | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | licenseeId | M | licenseeId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LSA Licensee | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lCId | M | lCId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LC | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | lRId | M | lRId | Uniquely | | | | | identifies the | | | | | LR | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#