# Foreword
This Technical Specification\| has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 28.307: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
TS 28.308: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
TS 28.309: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions
One main motivation of mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience why the evaluation at the UE side is vital to network operators,
especially when the operators provide some real-time services which require
for example high date rate and low latency like streaming services (typically
video services).
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at session level on a number of UEs.
The operator can initiate logging of QoE information of an end user service.
The collected information (specified in 3GPP TS 26.247 [2]) cannot be deduced
from performance measurements in the mobile network.
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE.
The QoE information is collected by the management system (e.g. an Operations
System (OS) in TMN terminology) for analysis and/or KPI calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document addresses Integration Reference Point (IRP) requirements
for the function Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection in UMTS
and LTE. The measurements that are collected are DASH [2] and MTSI [5]
measurements.
The function includes collecting QoE information from UEs frequenting a
specified area.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.404: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NRS Network Request Session
NOTE: See TS 28.404 [3].
RECS RECording Session
NOTE: See 3GPP TS 28.404 [3].
UERS UE Request Session
NOTE: See 3GPP TS 28.404 [3].
# 4 Concepts and background
The collection of QoE information for a specified end user service/end user
service type either from UEs in a specified area. The collected _information_
is transported to a collection centre, where it can be analysed and/or KPIs
can be calculated.
_A collection can be requested by an operator technician via the management
system to the traffic network. As the network do not have any knowledge which
UEs have the capability to record the requested data, therefore the UEs will
report whether they have this capability or not when a session set up. UEs
that has this capability that match the request from the management system
will be requested to start recording the requested information when the
request constraints are met. The UE will make the recorded data available for
management system._
# 5 Business Level Requirements
See business level requirements in 3GPP TS 28.404 [3]_._
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
**REQ-EUSPC-FUN-1** : The IRPManager shall have a capability to request
collection of QoE information per end user service/end user service type for a
specified area.
**REQ-EUSPC-FUN-2** : The IRPManager shall have a capability to request the
collection of QoE information to be stopped before the time for the NRS has
expired.
**REQ-EUSPC-FUN-3** : The IRPAgent shall have a capability to notify the
IRPManager when a collection of QoE information has been stopped before the
time for the NRS has expired.
## 6.2 Actor roles
_Please see respective use case._
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
_Please see respective use case._
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Activate collection measurement job for an area in UTRAN
* * *
Table 6.4.1-1: Activate collection measurement job for an area
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To start collecting QoE information for an end user service type in a
specified area.
Actors and roles IRPManager: Request the start of collection of QoE
information.
Telecom resources The RNC and the UE
Assumptions There are UEs that has the capability to provide the requested
information in the specified area.
Pre-conditions None.
Begins when The IRPManager requests that a NRS shall be started.
Step 1(M) An IRPAgent receives the request and forwards it to the appropriate
RNC(s).
Step 2 (M) The RNC starts a NRS for the specified area and start checking for
UEs that supports QoE information collection.
Step 3 (M) For UEs that support QoE information collection, the RNC starts a
UERS and forwards the request of collection QoE information to the UE. See
ref. 3GPP TS 25.331 [4].
Step 4 (M) When the requested end user service is started in the UE, it starts
a RECS and records the requested information.
Step 5 (M) The UE reports the recorded information to a collection centre via
the RNC as long as the end user service session is active during the time for
the NRS.
Step 6 (M) When the end user service session ends the UE stops the RECS and
reports the collected data to a collection centre via the RNC.
Ends when When the time for the NRS elapses or when the IRPManager sends a
request for de-activation.
Exceptions
Post-conditions None.
Traceability REQ-EUSPC-FUN-1.
NOTE: Steps 4, 5 and 6 are repeated in a NRS for every time a session that
starts the requested end user service in the UE.
* * *
NOTE: A similar use case is valid for LTE.
### 6.4.2 De-activate collection measurement job in UTRAN
* * *
Table 6.4.2-1: De-activate collection measurement job
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To stop collecting more QoE information for an NRS before the time for
the NRS has expired.
Actors and roles IRPManager: Request to stop the collection of QoE
information.
Telecom resources The RAN node, HSS and the UE
Assumptions None.
Pre-conditions A NRS is started.
Begins when The IRPManager requests that a NRS shall be stopped.
Step 1 (M) An IRPAgent receives the request and forwards it to the RNC or the
HSS.
Step 2 (O) The HSS transfers the request to the RNC via the SGSN.
Step 3 (M) The RNC node stops the NRS and informs the UE to not start new
RECS.
Step 4 (O) The RNC node informs HSS, via SGSN, that the NRS is stopped.
Step 5 (O) The HSS stops the NRS.
Ends when When the IRP Manager receives the notification that the NRS is
stopped.
Exceptions None.
Post-conditions None.
Traceability REQ-EUSPC-FUN-3 and REQ-EUSPC-FUN-4.
* * *
NOTE: A similar use case is valid for LTE.
#