# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Management and orchestration; as identified below:
**TS 28.314: \"Plug and Connect; Concepts and requirements\".**
**TS 28.315: \"Plug and Connect; Procedure flows\".**
TS 28.316: \"Plug and Connect; Data formats\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies concepts, use cases and requirements for _Plug
and Connect_ NE in 3GPP systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[3] IETF RFC 4210: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Management Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 4211: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Request Message Format (CRMF)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Plug and Connect:** T**he procedure by which a NE gets basic connectivity
information after it is powered up and gets connected to its management
system.**
**Software and Configuration Server (SCS):** A server that provides software
and configuration functions for each connected network element.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CA Certification Authority
CMP Certificate Management Protocol
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DNS Domain Name System
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
NAT Network Address Translation
NE Network Element
PnC Plug and Connect
RA Registration Authority
SCS Software and Configuration Server
SeGW Security Gateway
VLAN Virtual LAN
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Plug and Connect Concept
### 4.1.1 General description
Plug and connect is a list of procedures for connecting the NE to its
management system. The basic steps of Plug and Connect are described in clause
6.1.1.
The entities involved in the PnC concept are NE, DHCP server, DNS Server,
Certification Authority server, SCS (including the Initial and Serving SCS
that could be the same in certain deployment scenarios), Security Gateway.
### 4.1.2 Network Scenarios
#### 4.1.2.1 NE connected via a Non-Secure, Operator Controlled Network
An NE is typically connected to the operator\'s network according to one of
the following scenarios:
In Figure 4.1.2.1.1, the NE is connected directly to a network controlled by
the operator. The NE can use IP Infrastructure services (DHCP Server, DNS
Server, etc.) in the Non-secure Operator Network. The Operator has full
control of these nodes. One or more Security Gateways protect the Secure
Operator Network from malicious NEs. Within the Secure Operator Network, there
are also IP Infrastructure nodes.
Figure 4.1.2.1.1: NE connected to a Non-Secure Operator Network
#### 4.1.2.2 NE connected via an External Network
In Figure 4.1.2.2.1, the NE is connected to a network controlled by an entity
external to the Operator. In contrast to the first scenario, the IP
Infrastructure nodes in the External Network are not fully controlled by the
operator. In both cases, the NE needs to traverse the Security Gateway(s) to
access the nodes in the Secure Operator Network.
Figure 4.1.2.2.1: NE connected to an External Network
### 4.1.3 Security Aspects
#### 4.1.3.1 Root Certificate Acquisition:
In accordance to TS 33.310 [2] clause 9.2 there are two options how to obtain
the operator root certificate:
Option 1: The operator root certificate is provisioned in the NE prior to the
CMPv2 protocol run.
Option 2: The operator root certificate is provisioned in the NE during the
CMPv2 protocol run (as part of the Initialisation Response).
The required pre-provisioning in option 1 is against the basic idea of PnC to
minimize pre-provisioning. Therefore from the PnC perspective Option 2 is more
interesting. From a security point of view the following considerations are
relevant:
\- Option 2 has the risk that during the CMP initialisation a man-in the
middle attack could take place. In order to be successful, such an attack
happens timely during the actual CMP initialization run and the attacker has
access to the access network between NE and RA/CA.\ This risk can be assessed
as acceptable, given (a) the risks which are present at Options 1\'s prior
provisioning -- see below, (b) the short time window of vulnerability, (c) the
closed access networks of many operators. In addition, most attacks will only
lead to inability of the NE to connect to the network, or to misuse of the new
NE by the attacker. The operator should notice it soon if the NE does not
connect and will investigate the issue.
\- Option 1 avoids the above \"time window of vulnerability\". On the other
hand, it requires pre-provisioning of the operator root certificate, either in
factory or on-site by service personnel. There is the risk of a security leak
during the provisioning of the root certificate within the vendor /
commissioning environment.
It seems questionable from a security point of view to allow option 2 also in
public Internet (without operator-trusted access network). There the attacks
stated above are more probable, and an attacker may even install some (static)
catching or spoofing equipment in the public Internet to always capture such
\"initialization requests\".
It is up to the network operator to choose the option with is preferable from
his point of view (risk assessment, Plug and Connect importance).
The enrolment of NE shall use the CMPv2 protocol as specified in RFC 4210 [3]
and RFC 4211 [4]. Security mechanism is further specified in TS 33.310 [2]
clause 9.3.
#### 4.1.3.2 Number of CA servers
There could be one or more RA/CA server, e.g. one per NE vendor. If more than
one RA/CA server is deployed with one RA/CA server per vendor then the vendor
identification would be needed either in the FQDN of the RA server or in the
information from the IP AutoConfiguration Service carrying the information
about RA/CA server.
#### 4.1.3.3 Number of OAM SeGWs
There could be one or more OAM SeGW, e.g. one per NE vendor. If more than one
OAM SeGW is deployed with one OAM SeGW per vendor then the vendor
identification would be needed either in the FQDN of the OAM SeGW or in the
information from the IP AutoConfiguration Service carrying the information
about OAM SeGW.
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Business Requirements for Plug and Connect
**REQ_PnC_CON_1** Plug and Connect shall use standard protocols.
**REQ_PnC_CON_2** VPN tunnels needed for Plug and Connect shall be set-up
automatically.
**REQ_PnC_CON_3** The complete key management during Plug and Connect shall be
a fully automatic secure procedure, based on procedures defined by 3GPP SA3.
**REQ_PnC_CON_4:** It shall be possible to perform the Plug and Connect
procedures using secure protocols and procedures between the NE and OAM.
**REQ_PnC_CON_5 An NE shall be able to get its own IP addresses and SCS IP
address without manual configuration.**
**REQ_PnC_CON_6 For Plug and Connect the SCS shall only be accessible by
authenticated and authorized NEs.**
**REQ_PnC_CON_7 For Plug and Connect the initial and final configuration of
the NE (or the information how to retrieve them) shall only be accessible by
authenticated and authorized NEs.**
**REQ_PnC_CON_8** The Plug and Connect solution shall be usable for IPv4-only
networks, for IPv6-only networks and for dual stack IP networks.
**REQ_PnC_CON_9** Plug and Connect procedures shall support connection of NEs
with and without NAT and via External Networks or Non-Secure Operator
Networks.
# 6 Specification Level Requirements
## 6.1 Use Cases
### 6.1.1 Use case Plug and Connect
Table 6.1.1.1
+--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \** | | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +====================+===========================+===================+ | Goal | After physical | | | | installation, connect the | | | | NE to its SCS as | | | | automatically as | | | | possible. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NE as user. | | | | | | | | In this use case NE is | | | | the RAN NE. Other types | | | | of NE might also be | | | | compliant and use this | | | | use case. Examples of NEs | | | | are: | | | | | | | | > \- gNB | | | | > | | | | > \- eNB | | | | | | | | The NE within | | | | virtualization is not | | | | addressed. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Telecom resources | NE; IP networks: | | | | Non-Secure Operator | | | | Network, External | | | | Network, and its elements | | | | like DHCP server | | | | optionally DNS, CA/RA | | | | servers, Security | | | | Gateway(s) (each | | | | protecting one or more | | | | Secure Operator | | | | Networks), Secure | | | | Operator Network(s) | | | | including SCS(s) | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Assumptions | There is a functional | | | | power supply for the NE. | | | | | | | | There may be one or more | | | | IP Autoconfiguration | | | | Services like DHCP and | | | | Router Advertisements and | | | | zero or more DNS servers. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Pre conditions | The NE is physically | | | | installed. | | | | | | | | IP connectivity exists | | | | between the involved | | | | telecom resources. | | | | | | | | The involved telecom | | | | resources are functional. | | | | | | | | The relevant information | | | | is stored and available: | | | | | | | | > \- Vendor Certificate | | | | > at the NE | | | | > | | | | > \- Operator Certificate | | | | > at the CA/RA | | | | > | | | | > \- For the External | | | | > Network or Non-Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Outer) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the initial | | | | > OAM SeGW at the NE\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the initial OAM SeGW at | | | | > the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the CA/RA | | | | > servers at the NE\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the CA/RA servers at | | | | > the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to be | | | | > resolved, corresponding | | | | > IP address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- For the Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Inner) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service or at the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN or IP address | | | | > of the initial SCS at | | | | > the NE and/or DHCP | | | | > Server of the Secure | | | | > Operator Network. | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to be | | | | > resolved, corresponding | | | | > IP address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- Configuration and | | | | > software for the NE at | | | | > the SCS(s) | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Begins when | **The NE is powered up.** | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | **If a VLAN ID is | | | | available the NE uses | | | | it**. Otherwise the NE | | | | uses the **native VLAN | | | | where PnC traffic is sent | | | | and received untagged** | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The NE acquires its IP | | | | address through stateful | | | | or stateless IP | | | | autoconfiguration. This | | | | may provide 0 or more DNS | | | | server addresses. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The NE acquires the IP | | | | address of the CA/RA | | | | server. The FQDN of the | | | | CA/RA server may be | | | | pre-configured in the NE | | | | or the FQDN or IP address | | | | of the CA/RA server may | | | | be provided by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the DNS | | | | if necessary. Information | | | | provided by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Services shall supersede | | | | those pre-configured at | | | | the NE. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | The NE performs | | | | Certificate Enrolment. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 5 (M) | The NE acquires the IP | | | | address of the OAM SeGW. | | | | The FQDN of the OAM SeGW | | | | may be pre-configured in | | | | the NE or the FQDN or the | | | | IP address of the OAM | | | | SeGW may be provided by | | | | the IP Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the DNS | | | | if necessary. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 6 (M) | The NE establishes a | | | | secure connection | | | | (tunnel) to the Security | | | | Gateway given by Step 5. | | | | | | | | The NE receives its | | | | (inner) IP | | | | autoconfiguration | | | | information (which may be | | | | the same as the outer IP | | | | address obtained in | | | | step2) and optionally the | | | | address of one or more | | | | DNS servers within the | | | | Secure Operator Network | | | | from the Configuration | | | | Parameters of IKEv2 | | | | during tunnel | | | | establishment. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 7 (M) | The NE acquires the IP | Secure connection | | | address of the correct | | | | Element Manager by | | | | either, issuing a DHCP | | | | request including the | | | | NE\'s vendor information, | | | | resolving FQDNs via DNS | | | | if necessary, or by | | | | having a pre-configured | | | | FQDN (including the NE\'s | | | | vendor information) | | | | resolved via DNS. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Step 8 (M) | The NE establishes a | Secure connection | | | connection to the | | | | provided SCS and acquires | | | | its configuration and | | | | software if any. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another SCS that this | | | | specific node shall use | | | | as SCS. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another SeGW that should | | | | be used before connecting | | | | to the SCS. | | | | | | | | The NE may then | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current SCS and | | | | OAM SeGW and then restart | | | | (returning to step 1), | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current SCS and | | | | OAM SeGW and then return | | | | to step 6, | | | | | | | | - release the connection | | | | to the current SCS and | | | | then repeat step 8. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above | | | | are successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Post Conditions | One or more secure | | | | connections exist between | | | | the NE and the SCS. Via | | | | the connection to the SCS | | | | the NE can receive | | | | further instructions to | | | | become operational and | | | | carry user traffic, e.g. | | | | the administrativeState | | | | is set to \"unlocked\". | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+ | Traceability | All requirements of | | | | clauses 5.1 and 6.2.1. | | +--------------------+---------------------------+-------------------+
Security aspects -- e.g. prevention of unauthorized network access and of fake
parameters supplied to the NEs, etc. -have special importance. Security
related sub-steps to establish secure connections are not shown in table
6.1.1.1. More security aspects are described in clause 4.1.3.
## 6.2 Requirements
### 6.2.1 Specification Requirements for Plug and Connect
**REQ_PnC_FUN_1** The establishment of secure tunnels from the NE to the OAM
shall support NAT traversal.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Graphical representation of the PnC Use Case
The NE Plug and Connect procedure, given in clause 6.1.1 are classified into
two sets corresponding to those conducted at External Network (or Non-secure
Operator Network) and those conducted at the Secure Operator Network. An
interpretation of these procedures is depicted in figures A.1 and A.2
respectively.
Figure A.1: PnC procedure for the External Network or Non-secure Operator
Network
Figure A.2: PnC Procedure for the secure Operator Network
#