# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects
Management and orchestration of networks, as identified below:
**TS 28.313: Management and orchestration; Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for
5G networks.**
TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements.
> TS 28.541: Management and orchestration; Self-Organizing Networks (SON)
> Network Resource Model (NRM) for 5G networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the concepts, use cases, requirements, and
procedures for the SON functions in 5GS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.321 \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.552 \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.511 \" Telecommunication management; Automatic Neighbour
Relation (ANR) management; Concepts and requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.300 \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[8] Void
[9] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 28.531 \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 32.508: \"Telecommunication management; Procedure flows for
multi-vendor plug-and-play eNodeB connection to the network\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\".
[17] Void
[18] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace data definition and management\".
[19] 3GPP TS 38.423: \"NG-RAN; Xn Application Protocol (XnAP)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and
configuration management\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.315: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect;
Procedure flows\".
[22] 3GPP TS 28.314: \" Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect;
Concepts and requirements".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Centralized SON (C-SON):** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed in
the 3GPP management system. Centralized SON has two variants:
\- **Cross Domain-Centralized SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are
executed in the 3GPP Cross Domain layer.
**\- Domain-Centralized SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed
in the Domain layer.
**Distributed SON (D-SON):** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed in
the Network Function layer.
**Hybrid SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at two or more
of the following layers: NF layer or Domain layer or 3GPP Cross Domain layer.
**Searchlist:** list of frequencies and supporting information to be used for
neighbour cell measurements, which contains entries for NG-RAN and supported
IRATs.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ANR Automatic Neighbour Relation
CHO Conditional Handover
DAPS Dual Active Protocol Stack
NCR Neighbour Cell Relation
NG-RAN Next Generation Radio Access Network
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 SON concepts
### 4.1.1 Overview
Based on the location of the SON algorithm, SON is categorized into four
different solutions that are possible for implementing various SON use cases,
the solution is selected depending on the needs of the SON use cases.
a) Centralized SON:
1) Cross Domain-Centralized SON
2) Domain-Centralized SON
b) Distributed SON
c) Hybrid SON.
The SON algorithm is not standardized by 3GPP.
The following figure illustrates the overview of SON Framework.
{width="3.388888888888889in" height="2.576388888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: Overview of SON Framework
### 4.1.2 Centralized SON
#### 4.1.2.1 Introduction
Centralized SON (C-SON) means that the SON algorithm executes in the 3GPP
management system. The centralized SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS
32.500 [2].
Figure 4.1.2.1-1 shows a generic C-SON process, where the SON algorithms
execute in the 3GPP management system interact with network functions in RAN
and/or CN to implement SON functions. The SON algorithm may consist of the
following functionalities:
> \- Monitoring: monitor the network(s) by collecting management data,
> including the data provided by MDAS.
>
> \- Analysis: analyse the management data to determine if there are issues in
> the network(s) that need to be resolved.
>
> \- Decision: makes the decision on the SON actions to resolve the issues.
\- Execution: execute the SON actions.
\- Evaluation: evaluate whether the issues have been solved by analysing the
management data
NOTE: The management data as well as the exact algorithm may vary for
different SON cases. For example, for automated creation of NSI, NSSI and/or
NFs related cases, the management data may be SLA requirements received from
service management layer; for automated optimization related cases, the
management data may be performance measurements of the networks; for automated
healing related cases, the management data may be alarm information of the
networks. The management data and the algorithm are to be specified case by
case.
Figure 4.1.2.1-1: C-SON process
#### 4.1.2.2 Cross Domain-Centralized SON
The Cross Domain-Centralized SON means that the SON algorithm executes in the
3GPP Cross Domain layer.
For Cross Domain-Centralized SON, the MnF(s) in 3GPP Cross Domain layer
monitors the networks via management data, analyses the management data, makes
decisions on the SON actions, and executes the SON actions.
#### 4.1.2.3 Domain-Centralized SON
The Domain-Centralized SON means the SON algorithm executes in the Domain
layer.
For Domain-Centralized SON, the MnF(s) in Domain layer monitors the networks
via management data, analyses the management data, makes decisions on the SON
actions, and executes the SON actions.
The MnF(s) in 3GPP Cross Domain is responsible for management and control of
the Domain-Centralized SON function. The management and control may include
switching on/off a Domain-Centralized SON function, making policies for a
Domain-Centralized SON function, and/or evaluating the performance of a
Domain-Centralized SON function.
### 4.1.3 Distributed SON
The distributed SON (D-SON) means that the SON algorithm is located in the
NFs. The distributed SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
For D-SON, the NFs monitors the network events, analyses the network data,
makes decisions on the SON actions and executes the SON actions in the network
nodes.
Figure 4.1.3-1 shows that the 3GPP management system (MnF in Domain or 3GPP
Cross Domain) is responsible for the following functions:
a) D-SON management function:
1) Switch on/off a D-SON function,
2) Provide policies, targets, and supplementary information (e.g., the range
attributes) for a D-SON function.
b) D-SON evaluation function: evaluate whether the issues have been resolved,
and may apply D-SON management actions.
Figure 4.1.3-1: D-SON process
### 4.1.4 Hybrid SON
The hybrid SON (H-SON) means the SON algorithm are executed at two or more of
the following levels: NF layer, Domain layer or 3GPP Cross Domain layer. The
hybrid SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
The 3GPP management system (i.e. MnF(s) in Domain or 3GPP Cross Domain) and
NFs work together, in a coordinated manner, to build up a complete SON
algorithm. The decisions on SON actions may be made by 3GPP management system
and/or NFs, depending on the specific cases.
Figure 4.1.4-1 shows that the C-SON component is monitoring and executes SON
actions.
Figure 4.1.4-1: H-SON process
## 4.2 Self-establishment of new RAN NE in network
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Self-establishment of new RAN NE in network describes the procedure of a new
NG-RAN NE can automatically establish when it is powered up and connect to the
IP network in multi-vendor scenario, which includes:
\- Network Configuration data handling
\- Plug and connect to management system
\- Self-Configuration
### 4.2.2 Network configuration data handling
Network configuration data handling makes the network configuration data
available to the management system support self-configuration process, which
may include network configuration data preparation, network configuration data
transfer and network configuration data validation. This happens except all of
the network configuration data for NE can be generated by the management
system supporting self-configuration process.
**Network configuration data preparation:** This makes the network
configuration data ready in operator\'s network management system who provides
the network configuration data. How to prepare the network configuration data
in operator\'s network management system is out of scope of the present
document.
**Network configuration data transfer:** This transfers the Network
configuration data from network configuration data Provider to the network
configuration data Consumer.
**Network configuration data validation:** This validates the syntax and
semantics of network configuration data. It takes place in the network
configuration data Consumer.
### 4.2.3 Plug and connect to management system
Plug and connect to management system connects the NE to its management system
providing support for self-configuration process as automatically as possible.
The concepts and requirements of plug and connect are specified in TS 28.314
[22].
### 4.2.4 Self-configuration
Self-configuration puts the NE into a state to be ready to carry traffic in an
automated manner. Self-configuration includes following functionality: create
self-configuration task, monitor self-configuration process, generate
configuration data if needed, download and activate software, download and
active configuration data, perform self-test and update network resource
model, etc.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Distributed SON management
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-01 For NG-RAN ANR management, the i** nitial status of a
newly created NCR by the ANR function to a NG-RAN cell shall be such that HO
is allowed, X2 or Xn connection setup is allowed, and the NCR is allowed to be
removed by the ANR function in the gNB.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-02** NG-RAN ANR management shall support NCRs from NG-RAN to
NG-RAN and from NG-RAN to E-UTRAN.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-03** For E-UTRAN ANR management, the initial status of a
newly created NCR by ANR function to a NG-RAN cell shall be such that HO is
allowed, X2 connection setup is allowed, and the NCR is allowed to be removed
by the ANR function in the eNB.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-04 E-** UTRAN ANR management shall support NCRs from E-UTRAN
to NG-RAN, in addition to support to other technologies, described in TS
32.511 [6] clause 5.1.
## 5.2 Actor roles
Not applicable
## 5.3 Telecommunication resources
Not applicable
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Distributed SON management
#### 6.1.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
**REQ-RACH-FUN-1** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the authorized consumer to set and update the targets for RACH
optimization function.
**REQ-RACH-FUN-2** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to enable or disable the RACH optimization
function.
**REQ-RACH-FUN-3** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the authorized consumer to collect performance measurements that are
used to evaluate the RACH performance.
#### 6.1.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
**REQ-MRO-FUN-1** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the MnS consumer to set the targets, HO offset ranges, and control
parameters for MRO function.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-2** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the MnS consumer to collect the handover related performance
measurements that are used to evaluate the MRO performance.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-3** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the MnS consumer to enable or disable the MRO function.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-4** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the MnS consumer to update the targets, HO offset ranges, and control
information for MRO function.
#### 6.1.1.3 ANR management in NG-RAN
The business level requirements in clause 5.1.1 are decomposed into the
following specification level requirements, applicable for NG-RAN:
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-01** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request establishment of an Xn connection
to the neighbour gNB, or an Xn connection to the neighbour ng-eNB.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-02** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an existing Xn connection to a
neighbour gNB, or an Xn connection to a neighbour ng-eNB to be released, and
that the establishment of such a connection is prohibited.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-03** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an NCR is allowed to be
removed.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-04** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an NCR is not allowed to be
removed.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-05** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to disable or enable the ANR function in one
or more gNBs.
#### 6.1.1.4 PCI configuration and re-configuration
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to set or update the list(s) of PCI
value(s) for NR cell(s).
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to enable or disable the PCI
configuration function.
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer with the PCI value(s) being
selected for NR cell(s).
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer about the resolution of PCI
collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cells.
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to configure or re-configure the
PCI list at the PCI configuration function.
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-6** producer of fault supervision MnS should have a
capability to generate or clear the alarm to PCI configuration function
failure.
#### 6.1.1.5 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
**REQ-DLBO-FUN-1** Provisioning MnS for D-LBO function should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to set or update the ranges of HO
and/or reselection parameters, and control parameters for LBO function.
**REQ-DLBO-FUN-2** Performance assurance MnS for D-LBO function should have a
capability allowing the authorized consumer to collect the LBO related
performance measurements that are used to evaluate the LBO performance.
**REQ-DLBO-FUN-3** Provisioning MnS for D-LBO function should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer about the LBO actions being
performed.
#### 6.1.1.6 CHO management
**REQ-DCHO-FUN-1** The producer of NF provisioning MnS should have the
capability allowing an authorized consumer to enable or disable Conditional
Handover for a gNB.
_**REQ-DCHO-FUN-2** The producer of NF performance assurance MnS should have
the capability to produce measurements related to CHO._
#### 6.1.1.7 DAPS handover management
**REQ-DDAPSHO-FUN-1** The producer of NF provisioning MnS should have the
capability allowing an authorized consumer to enable or disable DAPS handover
for a gNB.
_**REQ-DDAPSHO-FUN-2** The producer of NF performance assurance MnS should
have the capability to produce measurements related to DAPS handover._
### 6.1.2 Centralized SON
#### 6.1.2.1 PCI configuration
**REQ- CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1 The** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to configure or re-configure the
PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
**REQ- CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2 The** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer with the PCI value(s) being
assigned to NR cell(s).
**REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3 The** producer of performance assurance MnS should
have a capability allowing an authorized consumer to collect performance
measurements about handover degradation which may be caused by PCI collision
or PCI confusion problems for NR cells.
**REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4 The t** race data producer MnS should have a
capability to supply the authorized consumer with data allowing it to detect
PCI collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cells.
**REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5 The p** roducer of performance assurance MnS should
have a capability to notify the authorized consumer about handover improvement
which is the result of a resolved PCI collision or PCI confusion problem for
NR cells.
#### 6.1.2.2 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
**REQ-CLBO-FUN-1** Provisioning MnS for C-LBO function should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to set or update the ranges of HO
and/or reselection parameters for LBO function.
**REQ-CLBO-FUN-2** Performance assurance MnS for C-LBO function should have a
capability allowing the authorized consumer to collect the LBO load and LBO
related performance measurements.
#### 6.1.2.2 Requirements for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
**The requirements for plug and connect an NE to management system are
specified in TS 28.314 [22].**
#### 6.1.2.3 Requirements for self-configuration of a new RAN NE
**REQ-SCM-CON-1** The MnS for self-configuration management shall have the
capability allowing MnS consumer request MnS producer to create, query and
delete Self-configuration management profile.
**REQ-SCM-CON-2** The MnS for Self-configuration management shall have the
capability allowing MnS consumer obtain the progress of self-configuration
process form MnS producer.
#### 6.1.2.4 RRM resources optimization for network slice instance(s)
**REQ-RRM-FUN-1** producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing authorized consumer(s) to update the RRM policies.
**REQ-RRM-FUN-2** producer of performance assurance MnS should have a
capability allowing authorized consumer(s) to collect the RRM related
performance measurements on a per network slice instance basis.
#### 6.1.2.5 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
**REQ-CCO-FUN-1** producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing authorized consumer(s) to update the CCO control parameters.
**REQ-CCO-FUN-2** producer of performance assurance MnS should have a
capability allowing authorized consumer(s) to collect the CCO related
measurements, MDT, RLF and RCEF reports.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See use cases in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
See use cases in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Distributed SON management
#### 6.4.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the RACH | | | | parameters in a cell in | | | | order to achieve the | | | | optimal network | | | | performance by reducing | | | | the network access | | | | time, and minimize the | | | | failures. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support | | | | RACH Optimization | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - RACH Optimization | | | | function is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function decides to | | | | enable the RACH | | | | Optimization function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to set | | | | the targets for the | | | | RACH optimization | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the RACH | | | | optimization function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects the | | | | RACH related | | | | measurements, and | | | | analyse them to | | | | evaluate the RACH | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | If the D-SON management | | | | function determines | | | | that the RACH | | | | performance does not | | | | meet the target, it | | | | updates the targets for | | | | RACH optimization | | | | function; | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The RACH performance | | | | has been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-RACH-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-RACH-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-RACH-FUN-3** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the handover | | | | parameters in cells or | | | | beams in order to | | | | improve the handover | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - MRO is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | decides to enable MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to set | | | | the targets, HO offset | | | | ranges, and control | | | | information for the MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The MRO function | | | | detects handover issues | | | | (e.g. too late HO, too | | | | early HO and HO to a | | | | wrong cell) in | | | | intra-RAT or inter-RAT | | | | mobility by analysing | | | | reports from UEs and | | | | network side | | | | information, and acts | | | | to mitigate the HO | | | | issues by adjusting HO | | | | related parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects MRO | | | | related measurements, | | | | and analyses them to | | | | evaluate the MRO | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function performs the | | | | following action, if | | | | the MRO performance | | | | does not meet the | | | | target: | | | | | | | | 1. Update the targets | | | | for MRO function. | | | | | | | | 2. Update the ranges | | | | for MRO function. | | | | | | | | 3. Update the control | | | | information for MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The MRO performance has | | | | been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-MRO-FUN-1, REQ- | | | | MR-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-MRO-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-MRO-FUN-4** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 ANR management
##### 6.4.1.3.1 Starting the ANR function
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make the | | | | ANR function in the gNB | | | | is enabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is not | | | | active. | | | | | | | | The gNB may have NCRs. | | | | The NCRs may be | | | | configured by a MnS | | | | consumer or may have | | | | been added by the ANR | | | | function if the ANR | | | | function has been active | | | | previously. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to enable the ANR | | | | function in a gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer enables | | | | the ANR function in the | | | | gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The ANR function in gNB | | | | is successfully enabled | | | | by the MnS consumer, or | | | | if unsuccessful, still | | | | disabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0h | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.2 Stopping the ANR function
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make the | | | | ANR function in the gNB | | | | is disabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to disable the ANR | | | | function in a gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | disables the ANR | | | | function in the gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The ANR function in gNB | | | | is successfully disabled | | | | by the MnS consumer, or | | | | if unsuccessful, still | | | | enabled. All existing | | | | NCRs, whether created by | | | | ANR or otherwise are | | | | unaltered. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0h | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.3 Sending notification of added or deleted NCR
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is for the MnS | | | | producer to send a | | | | notification of added or | | | | deleted NCR to the MnS | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management. | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | An NCR is added or | | | | deleted. This could be | | | | the result of either the | | | | ANR function\'s action, | | | | or the creation of the | | | | deletion of an NCR by a | | | | MnS consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS producer sends a | | | | notification to the MnS | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The MnS consumer is | | | | aware of the creation or | | | | deletion of the NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0m | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.4 Handover Allowlisting
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make an | | | | NCR present in the NCRT, | | | | useful for handovers. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to allowlist an NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (O)** | The MnS consumer creates | | | | the NCR | | | | | | | | This step is executed if | | | | it the wanted NCR not | | | | already present in the | | | | NCRT. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The MnS consumer marks | | | | the NCR so that | | | | handovers are allowed, | | | | and so that the ANR | | | | function is not allowed | | | | to remove the NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The wanted NCR is | | | | present in the NCRT. It | | | | is protected from being | | | | removed by the ANR | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0c, | | | | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0i | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.5 Handover Blocklisting
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make an | | | | NCR is present in the | | | | NCRT and made | | | | unavailable for | | | | handovers. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to blocklist an NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (O)** | The MnS consumer creates | | | | the NCR. | | | | | | | | This step is executed if | | | | it the wanted NCR not | | | | already present in the | | | | NCRT. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The MnS consumer marks | | | | the NCR so that | | | | handovers are | | | | prohibited, and so that | | | | the ANR function is not | | | | allowed to remove the | | | | NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The wanted NCR is | | | | present in the NCRT. It | | | | is protected from being | | | | removed by the ANR | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0d, | | | | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0i | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.6 Prohibiting X2 or Xn connection to a peer node (X2/Xn
blocklisting)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to prohibit | | | | a gNB from setting up an | | | | X2 or Xn connection to a | | | | peer gNB or eNB. If such | | | | a connection existed, it | | | | is brought down. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to prohibit the setting | | | | up of X2 or Xn | | | | connections to a peer | | | | node. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | configures the MnS | | | | producer with the peer | | | | node into the list of | | | | nodes for which X2 or Xn | | | | connections are | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The peer node is in the | | | | block-list. If an X2 or | | | | Xn connection was | | | | present to the peer | | | | node, it is brought | | | | down. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0g | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.7 Prohibiting handover over X2 or Xn (X2/Xn handover
blocklisting)
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +=======================+========================+==================+ | **Goal** | The goal is to | | | | prohibit a gNB from | | | | using an X2 or Xn | | | | connection to a peer | | | | gNB or eNB for | | | | handover. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON | | | | management. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins | | | | when the MnS consumer | | | | decides to prohibit | | | | using the X2 or Xn | | | | connection to a peer | | | | node for handover. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | configures the MnS | | | | producer to mark the | | | | NCR to the peer node | | | | so that handovers over | | | | the X2 or Xn | | | | connection are | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The gNB is prohibited | | | | from using the using | | | | the X2 or Xn | | | | connection to the peer | | | | node for handovers. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0o | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 PCI configuration
##### 6.4.1.4.1 Initial PCI configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the initial | | | | PCI for a NR cell,from | | | | a list of PCIs . | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support | | | | initial PCI list | | | | configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - The NR cells is not | | | | yet in operation. | | | | | | | | - No PCI list has | | | | been assigned to | | | | the NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function decides to | | | | configure the PCI list | | | | for a NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | configure the PCI list | | | | for a cell to the PCI | | | | configuration function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the PCI | | | | configuration function | | | | at NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | When the cell is about | | | | to start operating, the | | | | PCI configuration | | | | function selects a PCI | | | | value from the list of | | | | PCI values and provides | | | | that to the NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | with the PCI value | | | | being assigned for the | | | | NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been | | | | configured. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 6.4.1.4.2 PCI re-configuration failure mitigation
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | re-configure the PCI | | | | list of an NR cell, due | | | | to the failure of PCI | | | | configuration function | | | | to resolve PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support PCI | | | | re-configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | fault supervision | | | | MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - A NR cell has been | | | | assigned a PCI | | | | value. | | | | | | | | - The PCI | | | | configuration | | | | function is in | | | | operation and | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The PCI configuration | | | | function has detected | | | | the PCI problem of a | | | | PCI collision or a PCI | | | | confusion for an NR | | | | cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function receives an | | | | alarm from the producer | | | | of fault supervision | | | | MnS indicating the PCI | | | | configuration function | | | | failed to resolve PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | an NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | re-configure the PCI | | | | list at the PCI | | | | configuration function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The PCI configuration | | | | function selects PCI | | | | value(s) from the PCI | | | | list. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | about the new PCI value | | | | of the NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function receives a | | | | clear alarm | | | | notification from the | | | | producer of fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | indicating the PCI | | | | configuration function | | | | has resolved the PCI | | | | issues. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI collision or | | | | PCI confusion have been | | | | resolved. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-6_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 6.4.1.4.3 PCI re-configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | re-configure the PCI of | | | | an NR cell, PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support PCI | | | | re-configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | fault supervision | | | | MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - A NR cell has been | | | | assigned a PCI | | | | value. | | | | | | | | - The PCI | | | | configuration | | | | function is in | | | | operation and | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The PCI configuration | | | | function has detected a | | | | PCI collision or a PCI | | | | confusion for an NR | | | | cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The PCI configuration | | | | function selects a PCI | | | | values from the PCI | | | | list, and configures | | | | the cell with the new | | | | PCI value. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | about the new PCI value | | | | of the NR cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI collision or | | | | PCI confusion have been | | | | resolved. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.5 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | distribute user traffic | | | | among neighboring cells | | | | to ensure the radio | | | | resources are | | | | efficiently used, while | | | | providing quality | | | | end-user experience and | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support LBO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - D-LBO is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function decides to | | | | enable D-LBO function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to set | | | | the handover and/or | | | | reselection parameters | | | | ranges (see clause | | | | 15.5.1.4 in TS 38.300 | | | | [7]), and to enable | | | | the D-LBO function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-LBO function | | | | perform load balancing | | | | as describe in clause | | | | 15.5 in TS 38.300 [7] | | | | and may notify D-LBO | | | | management function | | | | when the LBO action has | | | | been performed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects LBO | | | | related measurements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function analyses the | | | | measurements to | | | | evaluate the LBO | | | | performance and may | | | | request the producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | update the ranges for | | | | HO and/or reselection | | | | parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The LBO performance has | | | | been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-DLBO-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-DLBO-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-DLBO-FUN-3** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.6 CHO (Conditional Handover)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To enable CHO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support the | | | | CHO function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - CHO is not in | | | | operation for a | | | | gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function intends to | | | | enable CHO for a gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable CHO for a gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects CHO | | | | related measurements | | | | and analyses them to | | | | evaluate the CHO | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | CHO is in operation | | | | from for a gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-DCHO-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-DCHO-FUN-2** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.7 DAPS HO (Dual Active Protocol Stack Handover)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To enable DAPS HO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support the | | | | DAPS HO function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - DAPS HO is not in | | | | operation for a | | | | gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function intends to | | | | enable DAPS HO for a | | | | gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable DAPS HO from a | | | | source cell to a target | | | | cell. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects DAPS | | | | HO related measurements | | | | and analyses them to | | | | evaluate the DAPS HO | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | DAPS HO is in operation | | | | for a gNB. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-DDAPSHO-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-DDAPSHO-FUN-2** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.2 Centralized SON
#### 6.4.2.1 PCI configuration
##### 6.4.2.1.1 Initial PCI configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the PCIs of | | | | NR cell(s) that have | | | | not been assigned with | | | | PCI value(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON function to | | | | support PCI | | | | configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells have | | | | not been assigned | | | | with PCI values | | | | yet. | | | | | | | | - The C-SON has been | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function | | | | decides to configure | | | | PCI values for NR | | | | cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | determines the PCI | | | | value(s) for the NR | | | | cell(s) that have no | | | | collision or confusion | | | | with its neighbours. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | requests the producer | | | | of provisioning MnS to | | | | configure the PCI | | | | value(s) at the NR | | | | cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | with the PCI value(s) | | | | being assigned for the | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been selected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 6.4.2.1.2 PCI re-configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | re-configure the PCIs | | | | of NR cells, due to the | | | | PCI collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON to support PCI | | | | re-configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | fault supervision | | | | MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - The C-SON function | | | | is in operation, | | | | and is enabled, and | | | | subscribed PM | | | | measurements are | | | | received. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function | | | | requests the producer | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS to | | | | collect handover | | | | performance related | | | | measurements reported | | | | by NG-RAN. C-SON finds | | | | a potential PCI | | | | confusion and/or | | | | collision based on | | | | received PM data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the | | | | measurements above, the | | | | C-SON function requests | | | | the producer of trace | | | | MnS to collect Radio | | | | Link Failure traces | | | | from UEs in cells where | | | | PCI collision or PCI | | | | confusion is suspected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | analyses the PCI | | | | related information and | | | | detects if NR cells | | | | have experienced PCI | | | | conflict or confusion | | | | issues. If no PCI | | | | collision or confusion | | | | is found, go to step 5. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | When the C-SON function | | | | detects PCI collision | | | | and/or confusion it | | | | determines the new PCI | | | | value(s), and requests | | | | the producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | re-configure the PCI | | | | value for the NR | | | | cell(s) which | | | | experienced PCI | | | | conflict or confusion | | | | issues. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the C-SON | | | | function about the | | | | resolution of PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | requests the producer | | | | of performance | | | | assurance MnS to | | | | collect handover | | | | performance related | | | | measurements reported | | | | by NG-RAN in order to | | | | assess whether the PCI | | | | collision or confusion | | | | was corrected. The | | | | C-SON function turns | | | | off the collection of | | | | RLF data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | | | Step 5 is done. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been selected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.2 Use case for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
##### 6.4.2.2.1 Use case for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
The NE described in this use case can be gNB in non-split scenario and gNB-DU
in split scenario.
Note: The NE within virtualization is not addressed.
The details of this use case are covered in plug and connect use case in TS
28.314 [22].
##### 6.4.2.2.2 Use case for self-configuration of a new RAN NE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Goal (*) | After installation, | | | | put in an automated | | | | manner the NE into a | | | | state to be ready to | | | | carry traffic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | MnF providing | | | (*) | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process act as MnS | | | | Producer for | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Telecom resources | NE | | | | | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Assumptions | IP network | | | | connectivity exists | | | | between the NE and | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pre conditions | The NE is installed | Clause 6.4.2.2.1 Use | | | and connected to an | case for Plug and | | | IP network. | connect to | | | | management system | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Begins when | **The field | | | | personnel start the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. It is also | | | | possible that the | | | | process is triggered | | | | automatically after | | | | the completion of an | | | | NE self-test or | | | | receiving the | | | | self-configuration | | | | management profile | | | | creation request | | | | from** MnS Consumer | | | | for | | | | self-configuration | | | | management**.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 1 (O) | MnF providing | | | | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process may notify | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | self-configuration | | | | management about the | | | | start of the self | | | | configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the | | | | bullet points in the | | | | list below does not | | | | imply any statements | | | | on the order of | | | | execution. | | | | | | | | - An NE IP address | | | | is allocated to the | | | | new NE. | | | | | | | | - Basic information | | | | about the transport | | | | network (e. g. | | | | gateways) | | | | environment is | | | | provided to the NE. | | | | With this | | | | information the NE | | | | is able to exchange | | | | IP packets with | | | | other internet | | | | hosts. | | | | | | | | - The NE provides | | | | information about | | | | its type, hardware | | | | and other relevant | | | | data about itself to | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | - The address(es) | | | | of the MnF(s) | | | | providing support | | | | for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process (e.g. MnF | | | | for software | | | | download, MnF for | | | | configuration data | | | | download) is | | | | provided to the NE. | | | | The address is equal | | | | to an IP address and | | | | a port number, or a | | | | DNS name and port | | | | number, or an URI. | | | | | | | | The address(es) of | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for normal | | | | OAM functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process are provided | | | | to the NE. The | | | | address is equal to | | | | an IP address and a | | | | port number, or a | | | | DNS name and port | | | | number, or an URI. | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for the | | | | software download. | | | | | | | | - The decision | | | | which software or | | | | software packages | | | | have to be | | | | downloaded to the NE | | | | is taken. | | | | | | | | - The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | NE. | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for the | | | | configuration data | | | | download. | | | | | | | | - The configuration | | | | data for the NE is | | | | made available by | | | | either preparing it | | | | or making prepared | | | | configuration data | | | | available. | | | | | | | | - The configuration | | | | data is downloaded | | | | into the NE. | | | | | | | | - Dependent | | | | External nodes are | | | | updated with new | | | | configuration data | | | | as well (if | | | | required). | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for normal | | | | OAM functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | - **The inventory | | | | system in the MnF is | | | | informed that a new | | | | NE is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | - **The NE performs | | | | a self-test. | | | | Self-tests of | | | | different types can | | | | run at different | | | | places within the | | | | self-configuration | | | | procedure.** | | | | | | | | - **The operator is | | | | informed about the | | | | progress of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and | | | | important events | | | | occurring during the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | - **The network | | | | resource models are | | | | updated during and | | | | after the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | - **SW is | | | | installed, i.e. | | | | prepared in such a | | | | way, that the NE is | | | | ready to use it. NE | | | | is allowed to use | | | | the SW.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 3 (O) | MnF providing | | | | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process may notify | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management about the | | | | progress of the self | | | | configuration during | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all | | | | steps identified | | | | above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Exceptions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE is ready to | | | | carry traffic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traceability (*) | All requirements of | | | | clause 6.1.2.3 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.4.2.3 RRM resources optimization for network slice instance(s)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To enable the | | | | optimization of the RRM | | | | resources allocated | | | | among network slice | | | | instance(s) to ensure | | | | the RRM resources are | | | | efficiently used, while | | | | providing quality | | | | end-user experience and | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON function to | | | | support RRM resource | | | | optimization for | | | | network slice | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - An AI/ML model has | | | | been created based | | | | on the RRM related | | | | performance | | | | measurements | | | | received | | | | previously. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function has | | | | been enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | collects RRM related | | | | measurements on a per | | | | network slice instance | | | | basis (e.g. mean DL/UL | | | | PRB used for data | | | | traffic, mean number of | | | | DRBs successfully | | | | setup, and mean number | | | | of PDU Sessions | | | | successfully setup, ... | | | | etc.), by consuming the | | | | MnS of performance | | | | assurance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | analyzes the | | | | measurements to train | | | | the AI/ML model and | | | | determines the actions | | | | to optimize the RRM | | | | resources for network | | | | slice instance(s) that | | | | include consuming the | | | | MnS of provisioning to | | | | update the appropriate | | | | RRM policies. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The RRM resources for | | | | network slice | | | | instance(s) have been | | | | optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-RRM-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-RRM-FUN-2** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.4 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization (CCO)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To optimize the | | | | capacity and coverage | | | | of NR cells to insure | | | | the efficient network | | | | resource usage, and | | | | optimal end-user | | | | experience and | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON function to | | | | support CCO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | - PM job control and | | | | provisioning have been | | | | executed to allow C-SON | | | | function to receive | | | | performance | | | | measurements, MDT, RLF, | | | | and RCEF reports. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function has | | | | been configured with | | | | control information and | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | collects measurements | | | | (e.g. distribution of | | | | RSRP, RSRQ, ...), MDT, | | | | RLF, and RCEF reports | | | | to monitor the issues | | | | (e.g. coverage holes, | | | | capacity deficiency, | | | | ...) for NR cells or | | | | beams. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | analyzes the | | | | measurements and MDT, | | | | RLF, RCEF reports to | | | | determine the actions | | | | if needed to optimize | | | | the NR cells or beams | | | | capacity and coverage | | | | according to the | | | | coverage optimization | | | | control policy i.e. | | | | adjusting the | | | | adjustable parameters | | | | within the specified | | | | ranges. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | C-SON function consumes | | | | the provisioning MnS to | | | | re-configure the CCO | | | | control parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | The C-SON function | | | | collects measurements | | | | to evaluate whether the | | | | CCO actions have | | | | resolved the issues. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (O)** | The C-SON function may | | | | re-configure or restore | | | | the CCO control | | | | parameters, if the | | | | issues have not been | | | | mitigated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The capacity and | | | | coverage of NR cells | | | | have been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-CCO-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CCO-FUN-2,** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.5 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | distribute user traffic | | | | among neighboring cells | | | | to ensure the radio | | | | resources are | | | | efficiently used, while | | | | providing quality | | | | end-user experience and | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-LBO function to | | | | support LBO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Both Domain Centralized | | | | SON and Cross-Domain | | | | Centralized SON are | | | | supported. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - The C-LBO has been | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-LBO function is | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-LBOfunction | | | | collects LBO load | | | | measurements by | | | | consuming the MnS of | | | | performance assurance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-LBOfunction | | | | analyses measurements | | | | to determine the | | | | actions to optimize the | | | | traffic load | | | | distributions among | | | | neighboring cells that | | | | include consuming the | | | | MnS of provisioning to | | | | update the ranges for | | | | handover parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The C-LBOfunction | | | | collects LBO related | | | | measurements, and | | | | analyses them to | | | | evaluate the LBO | | | | performance, and may | | | | request the producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | update the ranges for | | | | HO and/or reselection | | | | parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The LBO performance has | | | | been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-CLBO-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CLBO-FUN-2** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
# 7 Management services for SON
## 7.1 Management services for D-SON management
### 7.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
#### 7.1.1.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.1.1-1: RACH optimization type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.1.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.1.2.1 Targets information
The targets of RACH optimization are shown in Table 7.1.2.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.1.2-1: RACH optimization targets
* * *
Targets Definition Legal Values UE access delay probability The probability
distribution of UE access delay per cell. CDF of access delay Number of
preambles sent probability The probability of the number of preambles sent per
cell. CDF of access probability
* * *
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Control information
The parameter is used to control the RACH optimization function.
Table 7.1.1.2.2-1: RACH optimization control
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | RACH optimization | This attribute allows | Boolean | | control | authorized consumer to | | | | enable/disable the RACH | On, off | | | optimization | | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute | | | | drachOptimizationControl | | | | in TS 28.541 [13]. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.1.2.3 Parameters to be updated
Void.
#### 7.1.1.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.1.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to the RACH optimization are captured in
Table 7.1.1.3.1-1:
Table 7.1.1.3.1-1: RACH optimization related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Distribution of RACH preambles sent Distribution of the number of preambles
UEs sent to achieve synchronization per SSB, where the number of preambles
sent corresponds to PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER (see clause 5.1.1 in TS
38.321 [4]) in UE. UE access delay probability per SSB Distribution of UEs
access delay per SSB Distribution of the time needed for UEs to successfully
attach to the network per SSB. Number of preambles send per SSB probability
### 7.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
#### 7.1.2.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.2.1-1: MRO type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | 28.532 [3]: | 28.531 [11]. | | | | | createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.2.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.2.2.1 Targets information
The targets of MRO are shown in the Table 7.1.2.2.1-1.
Table 7.1.2.2.1-1: MRO targets
* * *
Target Name Definition Legal Values Total handover failure rate (the number of
failure events related to handover) / (the total number of handover events)
[0..100] in unit percentage Total intra-RAT handover failure rate (the number
of failure events related to intra-RAT handover) / (the total number of
handover events) [0..100] in unit percentage Total inter-RAT handover failure
rate (the number of failure events related to inter-RAT handover) / (the total
number of handover events) [0..100] in unit percentage
* * *
##### 7.1.2.2.2 Control information
The parameter is used to control the MRO function.
Table 7.1.2.2.2-1: MRO control
+----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | MRO function control | This attribute allows | Boolean | | | the operator to | | | | enable/disable the MRO | On, off | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute dmroControl in | | | | TS 28.541 [13]. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.2.2.3 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.1.2.2.3-1: Ranges of handover parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Legal Values Maximum deviation of Handover
Trigger This parameter defines the maximum allowed deviation of the Handover
Trigger from the default point of operation (see clause 15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300
[7] and clause 9.2.2.61 in TS 38.423 [17]). See attribute
maximumDeviationHoTrigger in TS 28.541 [13]. The upper and lower bounds of
this parameter are configured separately. [-20..20] in unit 0.5 dB Minimum
time between Handover Trigger changes This parameter defines the minimum
allowed time interval between two Handover Trigger change performed by MRO.
This is used to control the stability and convergence of the algorithm (see
clause 15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300 [7]). See attribute
minimumTimeBetweenHoTriggerChange in TS 28.541 [13]. [0.. 604800] in unit
Seconds Tstore_UE_cntxt The timer used for detection of too early HO, too late
HO and HO to wrong cell. Corresponds to Tstore_UE_cntxt timer described in
clause 15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300 [7]. See attribute tstoreUEcntxt in TS 28.541
[13]. [0..1023] in unit 100 milliseconds
* * *
#### 7.1.2.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.2.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related MRO are captured in Table 7.1.2.3.1.-1:
Table 7.1.2.3.1-1. MRO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Number of handover events Includes all successful and unsuccessful handover
events (see clause 5.1.1.6 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total handover failure rate
Number of handover failures Includes unsuccessful handover events with failure
causes (see clause 5.1.1.6 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total handover failure rate
Number of intra-RAT handover events Includes all successful and unsuccessful
intra-RAT handover events (see clauses 5.1.1.6.1 and 5.1.1.6.2 in TS 28.552
[5]). Total intra-RAT handover failure rate Number of intra-RAT handover
failures Includes unsuccessful intra-RAT handover events with failure causes
(see clauses 5.1.1.6.1 and 5.1.1.6.2 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total intra-RAT
handover failure rate Number of inter-RAT handover events Includes all
successful and unsuccessful inter-RAT handover events (see clause 5.1.1.6.3 in
TS 28.552 [5]). Total inter-RAT handover failure rate Number of inter-RAT
handover failures Includes unsuccessful inter-RAT handover events with failure
causes (see clause 5.1.1.6.3 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total inter-RAT handover
failure rate Number of intra-RAT too late handover failures Detected when an
RLF occurs after the UE has stayed for a long period of time in the source
cell; the UE attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in the target
cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT too early handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a target cell or a
handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to re-
establish the radio link connection in the source cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1
in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT handover failures to wrong cell Detected when an RLF
occurs shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a target cell
or a handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to
re-establish the radio link connection in a cell other than the source cell or
the target cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT too late handover failures per source beam Detected when
an RLF occurs after the UE has stayed for a long period of time in the source
cell; the UE attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in the target
cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT too early handover failures per source beam Detected when
an RLF occurs shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a
target cell or a handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE
attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in the source cell (see
clause 5.1.1.25.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT handover failures to wrong cell per source beam Detected
when an RLF occurs shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a
target cell or a handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE
attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in a cell other than the
source cell or the target cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT too late handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
after the UE has stayed in anNG-RAN cell for a long period of time; the UE
attempts to reconnect to a cell belonging to an E-UTRAN node (see clause
5.1.1.25.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT too early handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
shortly after a successful handover from an E-UTRAN cell to a target cell in a
NG-RAN node (see clause 5.1.1.25.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of unnecessary handover to another RAT Detected when a UE is handed
over from NG-RAN to other system (e.g. UTRAN) even though quality of the NG-
RAN coverage was sufficient for the service used by the UE (see clause
5.1.1.25.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT handover ping pong Detected when an UE is handed over from
a cell in a source system (e.g. NG-RAN) to a cell in a target system different
from the source system (e.g. E-UTRAN), then within a predefined limited time
the UE is handed over back to a cell in the source system, while the coverage
of the source system was sufficient for the service used by the UE (see clause
5.1.1.25.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).
### 7.1.3 PCI configuration
#### 7.1.3.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.3.1-1: PCI type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.3.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.3.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the D-SON PCI configuration function.
Table 7.1.3.2.1-1: PCI contol
* * *
Control parameter Definition Legal Values PCI configuration control This
attribute allows authorized consumer to enable/disable the D-SON PCI
configuration functionality. See attribute dPciConfigurationControl in TS
28.541 [13]. enable, disable
* * *
##### 7.1.3.2.2 Parameters to be updated
The table below lists the parameter related to the D-SON PCI configuration
function.
Table 7.1.3.2.2-1: PCI update
* * *
Parameters Definition Legal Values PCI list The list of PCI values to be used
by D-SON PCI configuration function to assign the PCI for NR cells. (See
attribute nRPciList in TS 28.541 [13]). List of integers
* * *
#### 7.1.3.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.3.3.1 Notification information
The table below lists the notifications related to D-SON PCI configuration.
Table 7.1.3.3-1: PCI notifications
Notifications Description Note
* * *
PCI change notification When the PCI configuration function changes the PCI of
a cell, this change is notified using a notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges
notification. See attribute nRPCI in TS 28.541 [13].
##### 7.1.3.3.2 Alarm notification information
The table below lists the alarm notifications related to D-SON PCI
configuration.
Table 7.1.3.3.2-1: PCI alarm notifications
Alarm notifications Description Note
* * *
PCI configuration function failure This alarm notification indicates that the
PCI configuration function has failed to resolve PCI collision or PCI
confusion problems.
### 7.1.4 ANR management
This management service is used for management of ANR, and ANR is specified in
TS 38.300 [7], clauses 15.3.3.
Stage 2 for ANR management is located in TS 28.541 [13], clauses 4.3.2.2,
4.3.2.3, 4.3.32.2 and 4.3.32.3.
Stage 3 for ANR management is located in TS 28.541 [13], clauses C.4.3, D.4.3,
and E.5.
### 7.1.5 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
#### 7.1.5.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.5.1-1: D-LBO type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 5 of TS 28.532 | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | [3]: | 28.531 [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.5.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.5.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the LBO function.
Table 7.1.5.2.1-1: D-LBO control information
+------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | D-LBO function control | This attribute allows | Boolean | | | the operator to | | | | enable/disable the LBO | On, off | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute dlboControl in | | | | TS 28.541 [13]. | | +------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.5.2.2 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.1.5.2.2-1: Ranges of HO and cell selection parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Legal Values Maximum deviation of Handover
Trigger This parameter defines the maximum allowed absolute deviation of the
Handover Trigger, from the default point of operation (see clause 15.5.1.4 in
TS 38.300 [7] and clause 9.2.2.61 in TS 38.423 [17]). See attribute
maximumDeviationHoTrigger in TS 28.541 [13]. [-20 .. 20] in unit 0.5 dB
Minimum time between Handover Trigger changes This parameter defines the
minimum allowed time interval between two Handover Trigger change performed by
MRO. This is used to control the stability and convergence of the algorithm
(see clause 15.5.1.4 in TS 38.300 [7]). See attribute
minimumTimeBetweenHoTriggerChange in TS 28.541 [13]. [0 .. 604800] in unit
Seconds
* * *
#### 7.1.5.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.5.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related LBO are captured in Table 7.1.x.3.1-1:
Table 7.1.5.3.1-1. D-LBO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
DL Total PRB Usage This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage)
of physical resource blocks (PRBs) on the downlink (see clause 5.1.1.2.1 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
UL Total PRB Usage This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage)
of physical resource blocks (PRBs) on the uplink (see clause 5.1.1.2.2 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of DL Total PRB Usage This distribution measurement is to monitor
when a cell may experience overload situation in the downlink (see clause
5.1.1.2.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of UL Total PRB Usage This distribution measurement is to monitor
when a cell may experience overload situation in the uplink (see clause
5.1.1.2.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
DL PRB used for data traffic This measurement provides the number of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) in average used in downlink for data traffic (see
clause 5.1.1.2.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
UL PRB used for data traffic This measurement provides the number of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) in average used in uplink for data traffic (see clause
5.1.1.2.7 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of RRC Connections This measurement provides the mean number of
users in RRC connected mode during the granularity period (see clause
5.1.1.4.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Max number of RRC Connections This measurement provides the maximum number of
users in RRC connected mode during the granularity period (see clause
5.1.1.4.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of stored inactive RRC Connections This measurement provides the
mean number of users in RRC inactive mode during each granularity period (see
clause 5.1.1.4.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Max number of stored inactive RRC Connections This measurement provides the
maximum number of users in RRC inactive mode during each granularity period
(see clause 5.1.1.4.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).
### 7.1.6 MRO for Conditional Handover (CHO)
#### 7.1.6.1 MnS component type A
MRO for CHO re-uses the component A for MRO, see clause 7.1.2.1.
#### 7.1.6.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.6.2.1 Control information
These parameters are used to control the CHO function.
Table 7.1.6.2.1-1: MRO fro CHO control
+----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | CHO function control | This attribute allows | Boolean | | | the operator to | | | | enable/disable the CHO | On, off | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute dCHOControl in | | | | TS 28.541 [13]. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.6.2.2 Parameters to be updated
MRO for CHO re-uses the same parameters to be updated as MRO, see clause
7.1.2.2.3.
#### 7.1.6.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.6.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to MRO for CHO are captured in Table
7.1.6.3.1.-1:
Table 7.1.6.3.1-1. MRO for CHO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
Number of requested conditional handover preparations Counts the number of
successful and unsuccessful inter-gNB conditional handover preparations sent
(see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.1)  
Number of successful conditional handover preparations Counts the number of
unsuccessful inter-gNB conditional handover preparations sent (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.2)  
Number of failed conditional handover preparations Counts the number of
unsuccessful inter-gNB conditional handover preparations sent (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.3)  
Number of requested conditional handover resource allocations Counts the
number of successful and unsuccessful inter-gNB conditional handover
preparations (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.4)  
Number of successful conditional handover resource allocations Counts the
number of successful inter-gNB conditional handover preparations (see TS
28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.5)  
Number of failed conditional handover resource allocations Counts the number
of unsuccessful inter-gNB conditional handover preparations (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.6)  
Number of configured conditional handover candidates Counts the number of
outgoing inter-gNB conditional handover candidates requested (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.7)  
Number of UEs configured with conditional handover. Counts the number of UEs
that has been configured with inter-gNB conditional handover (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.8)  
Number of successful conditional handover executions Counts the number of
successful inter-gNB conditional handover executions received (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.9)  
Number of failed conditional handover executions Counts the the number of
failed inter-gNB conditional handover executions received (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.10)  
Mean Time of requested conditional handover executions Counts the mean time of
inter-gNB conditional handover executions (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.11)  
Max Time of requested conditional handover executions Counts the max time of
inter-gNB conditional handover executions (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.12)  
Number of configured conditional handover candidates Counts the number of
outgoing intra-gNB conditional handover candidates requested (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.y.1)  
Number of UEs configured with conditional handover Countes the the number of
UEs that has been configured with conditional handover (see TS 28.552 clause
5.1.1.6.y.2)  
Number of successful conditional handover executions Counts the number of
successful intra-gNB conditional handover executions received (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.y.3)  
Number of requested conditional handover preparations Counts the number of
outgoing intra-gNB conditional handover preparations requested, for a split
gNB deployment (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.3.7.1.a)  
Number of successful conditional handover preparations Countes the number of
successful intra-gNB conditional handover preparations, for a split gNB
deployment (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.3.7.1.b)
### 7.1.7 MRO for DAPS handover
#### 7.1.7.1 MnS component type A
MRO for DAPS handover re-uses the component A for MRO, see clause 7.1.2.1.
#### 7.1.7.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.7.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the DAPS handover function.
Table 7.1.7.2.1-1: MRO for DAPS handover control
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | DAPS HO function control | This attribute allows | Boolean | | | the operator to | | | | enable/disable the DAPS | On, off | | | HO functionality. See | | | | attribute dDAPSHOControl | | | | in TS 28.541 [13]. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.7.2.2 Parameters to be updated
MRO for DAPS handover re-uses the same parameters to be updated as MRO, see
clause 7.1.2.2.3.
#### 7.1.7.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.7.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to MRO for DAPS handover are captured in
Table 7.1.7.3.1.-1:
Table 7.1.7.3.1-1. MRO for DAPS handover related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
Number of requested DAPS handover preparations Counts the number of successful
and unsuccessful inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations sent (see TS 28.552
clause 5.1.1.6.x.1)  
Number of successful DAPS handover preparations Counts the number of
unsuccessful inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations sent (see TS 28.552 clause
5.1.1.6.x.2)  
Number of failed DAPS handover preparations Counts the number of unsuccessful
inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations sent (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.3)  
Number of requested DAPS handover resource allocations Counts the number of
successful and unsuccessful inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations (see TS
28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.4)  
Number of successful DAPS handover resource allocations Counts the number of
successful inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations (see TS 28.552 clause
5.1.1.6.x.5)  
Number of failed DAPS handover resource allocations Counts the number of
unsuccessful inter-gNB DAPS handover preparations (see TS 28.552 clause
5.1.1.6.x.6)  
Number of requested DAPS handover executions Counts the number of outgoing
inter-gNB DAPS handover candidates requested (see TS 28.552 clause
5.1.1.6.x.7)  
Number of successful DAPS handover executions Counts the number of successful
inter-gNB DAPS handover executions received (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.8)  
Number of failed DAPS handover executions Counts the the number of failed
inter-gNB DAPS handover executions received (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.x.9)  
Number of DAPS handover requested Counts the number of outgoing intra-gNB DAPS
handovers requested (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.y.1)  
Number of successful DAPS handovers Counts the number of successful intra-gNB
DAPS handovers (see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.1.6.y.2)  
Number of requested DAPS handover preparations Counts the number of outgoing
intra-gNB DAPS handover preparations requested, for a split gNB deployment
(see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.3.7.1.a)  
Number of successful DAPS handover preparations Countes the number of
successful intra-gNB DAPS handover preparations, for a split gNB deployment
(see TS 28.552 clause 5.1.3.7.1.b)
## 7.2 Management services for C-SON
### 7.2.1 PCI configuration
#### 7.2.1.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.2.1.1-1: PCI type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | --- modifyMOIAttributes | | | operation | | | | | | - - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations and notifications | | | defined in clause 11.5.1 of TS | | | 28.532 [3]: | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | operation | | | | | | - terminateStreamingConnection | | | operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | | | | | - addStream operation | | | | | | - deleteStream operation | | | | | | - getConnectionInfo operation | | | | | | - getStreamInfo operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clauses | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 and 11.6.1 in TS | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | 28.532 [3] and clause 6.2.3 of | defined in 28.550 [12]. | | TS 28.550 [12]: | | | | | | notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | | | | | - notifyFilePreparationError | | | notification | | | | | | - subscribe operation | | | | | | - unsubscribe operation | | | | | | - istAvailableFiles operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.2.1.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the C-SON PCI configuration function.
Table 7.2.1.2.1-1: PCI control
* * *
Control parameter Definition Legal Values PCI configuration control This
attribute allows authorized consumer to enable/disable the C-SON PCI
configuration functionality. See attribute cPciConfigurationControl in TS
28.541 [13]. disable, enable PCI list The list of PCI values to be used by
domain centralized SON PCI configuration function to assign the PCI for NR
cells. (See attribute cSonPciList in TS 28.541 [13]). Integer
* * *
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Parameters to be updated
The table below lists the parameter related to the C-SON PCI configuration
function.
Table 7.2.1.2.2-1: PCI update
* * *
**Updated parameters** **Definition** **Legal Values** NR PCI This parameter
contains the PCI of the NR cell. Integer
* * *
#### 7.2.1.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.2.1.3.1 Notifications information
The table below lists the notifications related to PCI configuration are
generated from the NR cells.
Table 7.2.1.3.1-1: PCI notification
Notification information Description Note
* * *
PCI collision notification The collision notification is used to indicate two
neighbouring cells are using the same PCIs.  
PCI Confusion notification The confusion notification is used to indicate that
a serving cell has 2 neighbouring cells that are using the same PCI value.
##### 7.2.1.3.2 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to the PCI configuration are collected from
the NR cells.
Table 7.2.1.3.2-1. PCI related performance measurements
+------------------------------+------------------------------+------+ | Performance measurements | Description | Note | +==============================+==============================+======+ | PCI of candidate | The measurement contains | | | cellsExcessive Radio Link | cumulative counter with | | | Failure | subcounters that is | | | | identified by the PCI | | | | value(s) of the candidate | | | | cells, and is derived from | | | | _MeasResultListNR_ (see | | | | clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 | | | | [9]) where it contains PCI | | | | in _PhysCellId_ , and | | | | RSRP/RSRQ in | | | | _MeasQuantityResults_ of | | | | candidate cells. It is | | | | generated when the RSRP | | | | received from the candidate | | | | cells exceeds certain | | | | thresholds. | | | | | | | | The measurements can be used | | | | to discover cells with | | | | excessive Radio Link | | | | Failures (see TS 28.552 | | | | [5] clauses 5.1.1.6.1.8, | | | | 5.1.1.6.1.9, 5.1.1.6.2.1 and | | | | 5.1.1.6.2.2) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+------+
##### 7.2.1.3.3 Trace Reporting
Trace information related to the PCI configuration are collected from NR
cells.
Trace Report Description Note
* * *
RLF messages Radio Link Failure messages are generated by UEs experiencing
Radio Link Failures, which may be caused by a PCI collision or a PCI confusion
(see TS 32.423 [18] clause 4.30 and TS 38.423 [19] clause 8.4.7)
### 7.2.2 RRM resources optimization for network slice instance(s)
#### 7.2.2.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.2.2.1-1: RRM resources optimization type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 5 of TS 28.532 | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | [3]: | 28.531 [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.2.2.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.2.2.2.1 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.2.2.2.1-1 defines the RRM related parameters to be updated by C-SON
function.
Table 7.2.x.2.1-1: RRM related parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Legal Values Maximum RRM policy ratio This
parameter specifies the maximum percentage of RRM resources used by the
network slice instance(s). See attribute rRMPolicyMaxRatio in TS 28.541 [13].
0..100 Minimum RRM policy ratio This parameter specifies the minimum
percentage of RRM resources used by the network slice instance(s). See
attribute rRMPolicyMinRatio in TS 28.541 [13]. 0..100 Dedicated RRM policy
ratio This parameter specifies the maximum percentage of RRM resources that
are dedicated to the network slice instance(s). See attribute
rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio in TS 28.541 [13]. 0..100
* * *
#### 7.2.2.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.2.2.3.1 Performance measurements
RRM related performance measurements are captured in Table 7.2.2.3.1-1:
Table 7.2.2.3.1-1. RRM related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
Mean DL PRB used for data traffic Provides the mean number of PRBs used in
downlink for data traffic in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.2.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Peak DL PRB used for data traffic Provides the peak number of PRBs used in
downlink for data traffic in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.2.9 in TS 28.552 [5])..  
Mean UL PRB used for data traffic Provides the mean number of PRBs used in
uplink for data traffic in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.2.7 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Peak UL PRB used for data traffic Provides the peak number of PRBs used in
uplink for data traffic in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.2.10 in TS 28.552 [5])..  
Average DL UE throughput in gNB Provides the average UE throughput in downlink
in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause 5.1.1.3.1 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB Provides the distribution of the UE
throughput in downlink in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.3.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Average UL UE throughput in gNB Provides the average UE throughput in uplink
in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause 5.1.1.3.3 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of UL UE throughput in gNB Provides the average UE throughput in
uplink in the NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause 5.1.1.3.4 in
TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of Active UEs in the DL per cell Provides the mean number of
active UEs in downlink in an NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause
5.1.1.23.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Maximum number of Active UEs in the DL per cell Provides the maximum number of
active UEs in downlink in an NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause
5.1.1.23.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of Active UEs in the UL per cell Provides the mean number of
active UEs in uplink in an NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause
5.1.1.23.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Maximum number of Active UEs in the UL per cell Provides the maximum number of
active UEs in uplink in an NRCellDU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause
5.1.1.23.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of DRBs being allocated Provides the mean number of DRBs being
allocated in the PDU sessions in the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI
(see clause 5.1.1.10.9 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Peak number of DRBs being allocated Provides the peak number of DRBs being
allocated in the PDU sessions in the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI
(see clause 5.1.1.10.10 in TS 28.552 [5])..  
Peak number of PDU Sessions being allocated Provides the peak number of PDU
Sessions being allocated in the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see
clause 5.1.1.5.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Peak number of PDU Sessions being allocated Provides the peak number of PDU
Sessions being allocated in the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI(see
clause 5.1.1.5.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of RRC connections Provides the mean number of RRC connections in
the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause 5.1.1.4.1 in TS 28.552
[5]).  
Maximum number of RRC connections Provides the maximum number of RRC
connections in the NRCellCU, with subcounters per sNSSAI (see clause 5.1.1.4.2
in TS 28.552 [5]).
### 7.2.3 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
#### 7.2.3.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.2.x.1-1: CCO type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 5 of TS 28.532 | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | [3]: | 28.531 [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.2.3.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.2.3.2.1 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.2.3.2.1-1 defines the CCO control parameters to be updated by C-SON
function.
Table 7.2.3.2.1-1: CCO control parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Note Configured max Tx power Represents the
maximum transmission power in milliwatts (mW) at the antenna port for all
downlink channels, used simultaneously in a cell, added together. See
attribute configuredMaxTxPower in TS 28.541 [13].  
Configured Max Tx EIRP Represents the maximum emitted isotroptic radiated
power (EIRP) in dBm for all downlink channels, used simultaneously in a cell,
added together. See attribute configuredMaxTxEIRP in TS 28.541 [13].  
Coverage shape Identifies the sector carrier coverage shape described by the
envelope of the contained SSB beams. See attribute coverageShape in TS 28.541
[13].  
Digital tilt Represents the vertical pointing direction of the antenna
relative to the antenna bore sight, representing the total non-mechanical
vertical tilt of the selected coverageShape. See attribute digitalTilt in TS
28.541 [13].  
Digital azimuth Represents the horizontal pointing direction of the antenna
relative to the antenna bore sight, representing the total non-mechanical
horizontal pan of the selected coverageShape. See attribute digitalAzimuth in
TS 28.541 [13].
* * *
##### 7.2.3.2.2 Control information
The parameter is used to control the C-SON CCO function.
Table 7.2.3.2.2-1: CCO control
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Note | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | CCO switch | This attribute allows | This parameter is | | | authorized consumer | used when domain | | | to enable/disable the | centralized SON CCO | | | CCO functionality. | is supported. | | | See attribute | | | | cCOControl in TS | | | | 28.541 [13]. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | CCO policy | It indicates the | This parameter is | | | range of the | used when domain | | | parameters which can | centralized SON CCO | | | be adjusted to | is supported. | | | optimize radio | | | | coverage. | | | | | | | | See attributes of the | | | | abstract class | | | | CCOParameters in TS | | | | 28.541 [13]. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
#### 7.2.3.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.2.3.3.1 Performance measurements
CCO related performance measurements are captured in Table 7.2.x.3.1-1:
Table 7.2.3.3.1-1. CCO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
Distribution of SS-RSRP per SSB Provides the distribution of SS_RSRP per SSB
(see clause 5.1.1.22.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of SS-RSRQ Provides the distribution of SS_RSRQ (see clause
5.1.1.31.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of the number of active UE per SSB Provides the distribution of
the number of active UE per SSB.  
Number of requested handover executions Provides the number of requested
handover executions (see clause 5.1.1.6.1.7 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of failed handover executions Provides the number of failed handover
executions (see clause 5.1.1.6.1.9 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of DL Total PRB Usage Provides the distribution of samples with
**total usage (in percentage) of PRBs on the downlink in different ranges**
(see clause 5.1.1.2.3 in TS 28.552 [5])**.**  
Distribution of UL Total PRB Usage Provides the distribution of samples with
**total usage (in percentage) of PRBs on the uplink in different ranges** (see
clause 5.1.1.2.4 in TS 28.552 [5])**.**  
DL PRB used for data traffic Provides the number of PRBs in average used in
downlink for data traffic (see clause 5.1.1.2.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
DL total available PRB provides the total number of PRBs in average available
downlink (see clause 5.1.1.2.6 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
UL PRB used for data traffic Provides the number of PRBs in average used in
uplink for data traffic (see clause 5.1.1.2.7 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
UL total available PRB Provides the total number of PRBs in average available
uplink (see clause 5.1.1.2.8 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Average DL UE throughput in gNB Provides the average UE throughput in downlink
(see clause 5.1.1.3.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of DL UE throughput in gNB Provides the distribution of the UE
throughput in downlink (see clause 5.1.1.3.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Average UL UE throughput in gNB Provides the average UE throughput in uplink
(see clause 5.1.1.3.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of UL UE throughput in gNB Provides the distribution of the UE
throughput in uplink (see clause 5.1.1.3.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of RRC Connections Provides the mean number of users in RRC
connected mode (see clause 5.1.1.4.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Max number of RRC Connections Provides the maximum number of users in RRC
connected mode (see clause 5.1.1.4.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of PDU Sessions requested to setup Provides the number of PDU Sessions
by the gNB (see clause 5.1.1.5.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of PDU Sessions successfully setup Provides the number of PDU Sessions
successfully setup by the gNB from AMF (see clause 5.1.1.5.2 in TS 28.552
[5]).  
Number of PDU Sessions failed to setup Provides the number of PDU Sessions
failed to setup by the gNB (see clause 5.1.1.5.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).
##### 7.2.3.3.2 MDT and Trace reports
CCO related MDT and trace reports are captured in Table 7.2.3.3.1-2:
Table 7.2.3.3.1-2. CCO related MDT and trace reports
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
MDT reports Provides RSRPs of the serving cell and neighbour cells, and UE
location (see TS 32.422 [20]).  
RLF reports Provides RSRPs of the of the last serving cell and neighbour
cells, and UE location (see TS 32.422 [20]).  
RCEF reports Provides RSRPs of the NR cell where the RRC connection
establishment failed and neighbour cells, and UE location (see TS 32.422
[20]).
### 7.2.4 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
#### 7.2.4.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.2.4.1-1: C-LBO type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | --- modifyMOIAttributes | | | operation | | | | | | - - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - establishStreamingConnection | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.2.4.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.2.4.2.1 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.2.4.2.1-1: Ranges of HO and cell selection parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Legal Values Maximum deviation of Handover
Trigger This parameter defines the maximum allowed absolute deviation of the
Handover Trigger, from the default point of operation (see clause 15.5.2.5 in
TS 38.300 [7] and clause 9.2.2.61 in TS 38.423 [17]). See attribute
maximumDeviationHoTrigger in TS 28.541 [13]. [-20 .. 20] in unit 0.5 dB
Minimum time between Handover Trigger changes This parameter defines the
minimum allowed time interval between two Handover Trigger change performed by
MRO. This is used to control the stability and convergence of the algorithm
(see clause 15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300 [7]). See attribute
minimumTimeBetweenHoTriggerChange in TS 28.541 [13]. [0 .. 604800] in unit
Seconds
* * *
#### 7.2.4.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.2.4.3.1 Performance measurements
Table 7.2.4.3.1-1. lists the performance measurements that are used to monitor
the load of NR cells (see clause 15.5.1.2 in TS 38.300 [7]).
Table 7.2.4.3.1-1. C-LBO load performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
DL Total PRB Usage This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage)
of physical resource blocks (PRBs) on the downlink (see clause 5.1.1.2.1 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
UL Total PRB Usage This measurement provides the total usage (in percentage)
of physical resource blocks (PRBs) on the uplink (see clause 5.1.1.2.2 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of DL Total PRB Usage This distribution measurement is to monitor
when a cell may experience overload situation in the downlink (see clause
5.1.1.2.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Distribution of UL Total PRB Usage This distribution measurement is to monitor
when a cell may experience overload situation in the uplink (see clause
5.1.1.2.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
DL PRB used for data traffic This measurement provides the number of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) in average used in downlink for data traffic (see
clause 5.1.1.2.5 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
UL PRB used for data traffic This measurement provides the number of physical
resource blocks (PRBs) in average used in uplink for data traffic (see clause
5.1.1.2.7 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of RRC Connections This measurement provides the mean number of
users in RRC connected mode during the granularity period (see clause
5.1.1.4.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Max number of RRC Connections This measurement provides the maximum number of
users in RRC connected mode during the granularity period (see clause
5.1.1.4.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Mean number of stored inactive RRC Connections This measurement provides the
mean number of users in RRC inactive mode during each granularity period (see
clause 5.1.1.4.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Max number of stored inactive RRC Connections This measurement provides the
maximum number of users in RRC inactive mode during each granularity period
(see clause 5.1.1.4.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).
Table 7.2.4.3.1-2 lists the performance measurements used to monitor the LBO
performance:
Table 7.2.4.3.1-2. C-LBO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
Attempted RRC connection establishments Includes the number of RRC connection
establishment attempts (see clause 5.1.1.15.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Successful RRC connection establishments Includes the number of successful RRC
establishments (see clause 5.1.1.15.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of RRC connection re-establishment attempts Includes the number of RRC
connection re-establishment attempts (see clauses 5.1.1.17.1 in TS 28.552
[5]).  
Successful RRC connection re-establishment Includes the number of successful
RRC connection re-establishment (see clauses 5.1.1.17.2 and 5.1.1.17.3 in TS
28.552 [5]).  
Number of RRC connection resuming attempts Includes Number of RRC connection
resuming attempts (see clause 5.1.1.18.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Successful RRC connection resuming Includes the number of successful RRC
connection resuming (see clause 5.1.1.18.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).
# 8 SON procedures
## 8.1 Introduction
The procedures listed in clause 8 are some of all the possibilities, and are
not exhaustive.
## 8.2 Distributed SON
### 8.2.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
Figure 8.2.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the RACH optimization (D-SON) function. It is assumed that
the D-SON management function has consumed the performance assurance
management service to collect RACH optimisation related measurements.
Figure 8.2.1-1: RACH Optimization procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS 28.532 [3]) to
configure the targets for RACH optimization function.
1.a The provisioning MnS sets the targets for RACH optimization (D-SON)
function (NOTE).
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the RACH optimization function for a
given NR cell **if it is not enabled**.
3.a The provisioning MnS enables the RACH optimization (D-SON) function
(NOTE).
3\. The RACH optimization (D-SON) function receives the RACH information
report from UE(s), and analyses them to determine the actions to optimize the
RACH performance if the performance does not meet the targets by updating the
RACH parameters.
4\. The D-SON management function collects the RACH related performance
measurements.
5\. The D-SON management function analyses the measurements to evaluate the
RACH performance,
6\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the targets of the RACH optimization
function, when the RACH optimization performance does not meet the targets:
6.a The provisioning MnS updates the targets for RACH optimization function
(NOTE).
NOTE: The interface between provisioning MnS and RACH optimization is not
subject to standardization.
### 8.2.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
Figure 8.2.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the MRO function. It is assumed that the D-SON management
function has consumed the performance assurance MnS to create PM jobs to
collect handover related measurements.
Figure 8.2.2-1: MRO procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS 28.532 [3]) to
configure targets for the MRO function.
1.a The provisioning MnS sets the targets for MRO function (NOTE).
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the ranges of
handover parameters.
2.a The MnS of provisioning sets the ranges for MRO function (NOTE).
3\. The D-SON management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the MRO control
parameters (e.g. Maximum deviation of Handover Trigger, Minimum time between
Handover Trigger changes).
3.a The MnS of provisioning sets the MRO control parameters for MRO function
(NOTE).
4\. The D-SON management function consumes the NF provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the MRO function for a given NR cell
if it is not enabled.
4.a The provisioning MnS enables the MRO function (NOTE).
5\. The MRO function receives MRO information reports from UE(s), and analyses
them to determine the actions to optimize the MRO performance. If the
performance does not meet the targets, it updates the handover parameters.
6\. The D-SON management function collects MRO related performance
measurements.
7\. The D-SON management function analyses the measurements to evaluate the
MRO performance,
8\. The D-SON management function performs one of the following actions, when
the MRO performance does not meet the targets:
8.1. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the targets of the MRO function;
8.1.a The MnS of provisioning updates the targets for MRO function (NOTE).
8.2. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the ranges of the handover parameters;
8.2.a The MnS of provisioning updates the ranges of the handover parameters
(NOTE).
8.3. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the control parameters;
8.3.a The MnS of provisioning updates the control parameters (NOTE).
NOTE: The interface between provisioning MnS and MRO function is not subject
to standardization.
### 8.2.3 PCI configuration
#### 8.2.3.1 Initial PCI configuration
Figure 8.2.3.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the PCI configuration (D-SON) function to assign the
initial PCI values to an NR cell.
Figure 8.2.3.1-1: Initial PCI configuration procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the PCI list for an NR cell.
1.a The producer of provisioning MnS sets the PCI list at the PCI
configuration (D-SON) function. (NOTE)
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the PCI configuration function for
NR cell(s) **if it is not enabled**.
2.a The MnS of provisioning enables the PCI configuration (D-SON) function
(NOTE).
3\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function selects PCI value(s) from the PCI
list.
4\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function reports the PCI value(s) being
assigned to the MnS of NF provisioning.
5\. The MnS of NF provisioning sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to D-SON management function with
sourceIndicator = SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ (see clause 11.1.1.9.2 in TS 28.532 [3]) to indicate the PCI value(s)
being assigned to NR cell(s).
NOTE: The interface between MnS of NF provisioning and PCI configuration
(D-SON) function is not subject to standardization.
#### 8.2.3.2 PCI re-configuration failure mitigation
Figure 8.2.3.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can re-configure the PCI lis for the NR cell, when the PCI
configuration function is not able to mitigate a PCI collision or PCI
confusion problemt.
Figure 8.2.3.2-1: PCI re-configuration failure mitigation procedure
1\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function reports to the producer of fault
supervision MnS that PCI configuration function failed to mitigate the PCI
collision or PCI confusion problems (NOTE).
2\. The producer of fault supervision MnS sends a notification
_notifyNewAlarm_ to D-SON management function to report the PCI configuration
function failure.
3\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the PCI list for NR cell(s).
3.a The MnS of NF provisioning re-configures the PCI list for NR cell(s) (see
NOTE).
4\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function selects PCI value(s) from the
updated PCI list.
5\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function reports the PCI value(s) being
assigned to the MnS of NF provisioning.
6\. The Producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to the D-SON management function with
sourceIndicator = SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ (see clause 11.1.1.9.2 in TS 28.532 [3]) to indicate the
new PCI value being assigned to NR cell.
7\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function notifies MnS of fault supervision
that the PCI configuration function has been restored (see NOTE).
8\. The producer of fault supervision MnS sends a notification
_notifyClearedAlarm_ to D-SON management function to report that the PCI
configuration function has been restored.
NOTE: The interface betweenProducer of provisioning MnS and PCI configuration
(D-SON) function is not subject to standardization.
#### 8.2.3.3 PCI re-configuration
Figure 8.2.3.3-1 depicts a procedure that describes how the PCI configuration
function, when detecting a PCI collision or confusion, re-configures the PCI
of the cell based on the PCI list and notifies the D-SON management consumer.
Figure 8.2.3.3-1: PCI re-configuration procedure
1\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function detects and corrects the PCI
collision or PCI confusion problem for a NR cell.
2\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function indicates the attribute change to
the Producer of provisioning MnS. (NOTE)
3\. The Producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to the D-SON management function with
sourceIndicator = SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ (see clause 11.1.1.9.2 in TS 28.532 [3]) to indicate the
new PCI value having been assigned to NR cell.
NOTE: The interface between Producer of provisioning MnS and PCI configuration
(D-SON) function is not subject to standardization.
### 8.2.4 LBO (Load Balancing Optimisation)
Figure 8.2.4-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the LBO function. It is assumed that the D-SON management
function has consumed the performance assurance MnS to create PM jobs to
collect handover related measurements.
Figure 8.2.4-1: D-LBO procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [3]) to configure the ranges of HO and/or reselection parameters for
the LBO function.
1.a The MnS of provisioning sets the ranges for MRO function (NOTE).
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the NF provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the LBO function for a given NR cell
if it is not enabled.
2.a The provisioning MnS enables the LBO function (NOTE).
3\. The LBO function [collects real-time load information to determine
and]{.underline} perform actions to balance the traffic loads among NR cells.
4\. D-SON management function collects LBO related performance measurements.
5\. The D-SON management function analyses the measurements to evaluate the
LBO performance,
6\. The D-SON management function consume the MnS of provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the ranges of handover parameters if
the LBO failed to meet expection,
6.a. The MnS of provisioning updates the ranges of HO and/or reselection
parameters (NOTE).
NOTE: The interface between provisioning MnS and D-LBO function is not subject
to standardization.
## 8.3 Centralized SON
### 8.3.1 PCI configuration
#### 8.3.1.1 Initial PCI configuration
Figure 8.3.1.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how C-SON can assign the
PCI values to NR cells the first time.
Figure 8.3.1.1-1: Initial PCI configuration procedure
1\. The C-SON determines the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
2\. The C-SON consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_
operation to configure the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
2.a The MnS of provisioning sets the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s) (NOTE)
3\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ (see clause
11.1.1.9.2 in TS 28.532 [3]) to indicate the PCI value(s) being assigned to NR
cell(s).
NOTE: The interface between MnS of provisioning and PCI configuration (D-SON)
function is not subject to standardization.
#### 8.3.1.2 PCI re-configuration
Figure 8.3.1.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how C-SON function can re-
configure the PCI list for NR cell(s) when PCI collision or PCI confusion
issues were detected. It is assumed that the C-SON function has consumed the
MnS of performance assurance to create PM jobs to collect PCI related
measurements.
Figure 8.3.1.2-1: PCI re-configuration procedure
1\. The C-SON function collects PCI related performance measurements that are
derived from _MeasResultListNR_ (see clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 [9]) from
producer of performance assurance MnS.
2\. The C-SON function analyses the NRM data and PCI related measurements to
detect the PCI collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cell(s).
3\. The C-SON function determines the new PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
4\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the PCI values for NR cell(s).
4.a The MnS of NF provisioning set the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
5\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \
(see clause 11.1.1.9.2 in TS 28.532 [3]) to indicate the PCI value(s) being
assigned to NR cell(s).
### 8.3.2 Procedures for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
#### 8.3.2.1 Procedures for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
The NE described in this procedure can be gNB in non-split scenario and gNB-DU
in split scenario.
Note 1: The NE within virtualization is not addressed.
The details of procedure flow and descriptions are covered in TS 28.315 [21].
Note 2: Void
Note 3: Void
Note 4: Void.
Note 5: Void.
#### 8.3.2.2 Procedures for self-configuration management
The Figure 8.3.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for start self-configuration
management.
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="5.104166666666667in"}
Figure 8.3.2.2-1: Procedures for self-configuration management
1\. MnS consumer of self-configuration management sends
createScManagementProfile request for NE(s) of a certain type to MnS producer
of self-configuration management. NE information, stop point information and
step information may be included in the request.
2\. MnS producer of self-configuration management creates ScManagementProfile
instance for NE(s) specified in the received request.
3\. MnS producer of self-configuration management sends the create
ScManagementProfile response to MnS producer of self-configuration management.
4\. For each NE (specified in the created ScManagementProfile) starting its
self-configuration process, MnS producer of self-configuration management
sends NotifyScProcessCreation notification to MnS consumer of self-
configuration management.
5\. When arrival at a stop point (e.g. stop point waiting for the network
configuration data) or step described in corresponding ScManagementProfile,
MnS producer of self-configuration management sends NotifyProcessStage
notification to MnS consumer of self-configuration management.
6\. If arrival at a stop point in step 5), MnS consumer of self-configuration
management sends ResumeScProcess request to MnS producer of self-configuration
management. If the self-configuration process is suspended at a stop point and
is waiting for the network configuration data, the request include network
configuration data or information indicating location of network configuration
data.
7\. When the self-configuration process is terminated, the MnS producer of
self-configuration management sends NotifyScProcessDeletion notification to
MnS consumer of self-configuration management.
### 8.3.3 RRM resources optimization for network slice instance(s)
Figure 8.3.3-1 depicts an example of network slice instances that are created
to support various services, such as URLLC, eMBB, or mMTC with different RRM
resources requirements, where network slice instances sNSSAI #2-1 and sNSSAI
#2-2 support a kind of RRM requirements, while network slice instances sNSSAI
#1 supports different RRM requirements. It shows that the RRM resources
provided by network functions of DU, CUUP, and CUCP are characterized by
_RRMPolicyRatio_ IOC with rRMPolicyMaxRatio, rRMPolicyMinRatio, and
rRMPolicyDedicatedRatio attributes to define the shared resources, prioritized
resources, and dedicated resources for network slice instance(s) (see clause
4.3.36.1 in TS 28.541 [13]).
The _RRMPolicyRatio_ IOC has a base class _RRMPolicy_ IOC that contains
resourceType (i.e. PRB for DU, DRB for CUUP, and RRC connected user for CUCP)
and rRMPolicyMemberList that contains the network slice instance(s) subject to
this policy (see clause 4.3.43 in TS 28.541 [13]). A network function may have
one or more _RRMPolicyRatio_ MOI(s) where each _RRMPolicyRatio_ MOI is
associated with network slice instance(s) that share the same RRM resource
requirements.
Figure 8.3.3-1: RRM policies for multiple network slice instances
It is assumed that the C-SON function has consumed the MnS of performance
assurance to create PM jobs to collect RRM related measurements from RAN
nodes, such as DU, CUCP, and CUUP where the network slice instances are
created, and an AI/ML model has been created based on the use plane and
control plane information (e.g. traffic loads and patterns) that are collected
from the RRM related performance measurements received previously.
Figure 8.3.3-2: RRM resources optimization procedure
1\. The C-SON function consumes the performance assurance MnS to receive the
measurements (e.g. mean and peak numbers of PRB usage on DL / UL, average DL /
UL UE throughput in gNB, distribution of DL / UL UE throughput in gNB) from NF
DU to monitor the performance of network slice instances identified by sNSSAI
#1 and sNSSAI #2.
2\. The C-SON function consumes the performance assurance MnS to receive the
measurements (e.g. such as mean and peak numbers of DRBs successfully setup)
from NF CUUP to monitor the performance of network slice instances identified
by sNSSAI #1 and sNSSAI #2.
3\. The C-SON function consumes the performance assurance MnS to receive the
measurements (e.g. mean numbers of PDU Sessions requested to setup, mean
numbers of PDU Sessions successfully setup) from NF CUCP to monitor the
performance of network slice instances identified by sNSSAI #1 and sNSSAI #2.
4\. The C-SON function analyzes the measurements to train the AI/ML model and
determines the actions if needed to optimize the RRM resources for network
slice instance(s) that include consuming the MnS of provisioning to update the
_RRMPolicyRatio_ corresponding to the specific network slice instance(s).
If the RRM resources for network slice instances at DU need update, then the
following steps are executed:
5\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the _RRMPolicyRatio_ for the
NF DU.
5.a The MnS of NF provisioning updates _RRMPolicyRatio_ at the NF DU.
6\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \
to indicate the successful _RRMPolicyRatio_ update.
If the RRM resources for network slice instances at CUUP need update, then the
following steps are executed:
7\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the _RRMPolicyRatio_ for the
NF CUUP.
7.a The MnS of NF provisioning updates _RRMPolicyRatio_ at the NF CUUP.
8\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \
to indicate the successful _RRMPolicyRatio_ update.
If the RRM resources for network slice instances at CUCP need update, then the
following steps are executed:
9\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the _RRMPolicyRatio_ for the
NF CUCP.
9.a The MnS of NF provisioning updates _RRMPolicyRatio_ at the NF CUCP.
10\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function to indicate the successful
_RRMPolicyRatio_ update.
NOTE: The interface between producer of provisioning MnS and NFs is not
subject to standardization.
### 8.3.4 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization (CCO)
Figure 8.3.4-1 depicts the procedure of centralized capacity and coverage
optimization. It is assumed that PM job control and provisioning have been
executed to allow C-SON function to receive performance measurements, MDT,
RLF, and RCEF reports.
Figure 8.3.4-1: Capacity and coverage optimization procedure
1\. The C-SON function receives the measurements, as listed in clause
7.2.3.3.1, which are used to detect the capacity and coverage issues in NR
cells.
2\. The C-SON function receives MDT, RLF, and RCEF reports, as listed in
clause 7.2.3.3.2, which are used to detect the capacity and coverage issues in
NR cells.
3\. The C-SON function analyzes the measurements, MDT, RLF, and RCEF reports
to determine whether the capacity and coverage of given cells or beams need to
be optimized.
> If the capacity and coverage of given cells or beams need to be optimized,
> then the following steps are executed:
>
> 4\. The C-SON function determine the actions to mitigate the CCO issues.
>
> 5\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
> _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the CCO control parameters,
> as listed in clause 7.2.3.2.1.
>
> 5.a The MnS of NF provisioning updates the CCO control parameters at the NF
> for NR cells (NOTE).
>
> 6\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
> _notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
> SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ to
> indicate the CCO control parameters have been updated successfully.
>
> 7\. The C-SON function collects the measurements.
>
> 8\. The C-SON function analyzes the measurements to evaluate if the COO
> issues have been mitigated.
>
> If the the CCO issues have not been mitigated, then the following steps are
> executed:
>
> 9\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
> _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the CCO control parameters,
> as listed in clause 7.2.3.2.1.
>
> 9.a The MnS of NF provisioning updates the CCO control parameters at the NF
> for NR cells (NOTE).
>
> 10\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
> _notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function with sourceIndicator =
> SON_operation, attributeValueChange = \ to
> indicate the CCO control parameters have been updated successfully.
NOTE: The interface between producer of provisioning MnS and NFs is not
subject to standardization.
###### ## Annex A (informative): PlantUML source code
# A.1 Procedures for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
## A.1.1 Void
## A.1.2 Procedure for self-configuration management
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for self-
configuration management, as depicted by Figure 8.3.2.2-1:
\@startuml
title \" Procedures for self-configuration management \"
actor \"MnS Consumer of \n self-configuration management\" as SC
participant \"MnS Producer of \n self-configuration management\" as SP
SC -> SP: 1. createScManagementProfile request
SP -> SP: 2. Create ScManagementProfile
SP -> SC: 3. createScManagementProfile response
loop [Corresponding NE start its self-configuration process]
opt
SP -> SC: 4. NotifyScProcessCreation
end
\|\|\|
loop stop point or step is arrived
SP -> SC: 5. NotifyScProcessStage
opt if the stop point is arrived
SC -> SP: 6. ResumeScProcess
end
end
\|\|\|
SP->SC: 7.NotifyScProcessDeletion
end
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
#