# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The current 5G networks brings more operational complexities, and the telecom
system need to be able to adapt their operation to the business objectives of
the operator as well as expectations of customer, which is driving customer to
shift the focus from \"how\" to \"what\". An intent driven system will be able
to learn the behaviour of networks and services and allows a customer to
provide the desired state, without detailed knowledge of how to get to the
desired state. Thus, the intent driven management is introduced to reduce the
complexity of management without getting into the intricate detail of the
underlying network resources.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies concept, use cases, requirements and solutions
for the intent driven management for service or network management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concept, use cases and
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[7] TM Forum IG1253A: \"Intent Common Model v1.1.0\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.538: \"Management and orchestration; Edge Computing
Management\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunications management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**intent:** expectations including requirements, goals and constraints given
to a 3GPP system, without specifying how to achieve them
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Intent concept
### 4.1.1 Introduction
An intent specifies the expectations including requirements, goals and
constraints for a specific service or network management workflow. The intent
may provide information on particular objective and possibly some related
details. Following are some general concepts for intent:
\- An intent is typically understandable by humans, and also needs to be
interpreted by the machine without any ambiguity.
\- An intent focuses more on describing the \"What\" needs to be achieved but
less on \"How\" that outcomes should be achieved, The intent expresses the
metrics that need to be achieved and not how to achieve them. This not only
relieves the burden of the consumer knowing implementation details but also
leaves room to allow the producer to explore alternative options and find
optimal solutions. Intent describes the properties that allows a satisfactory
outcome.
\- The expectations expressed by an intent is agnostic to the underlying
system implementation, technology and infrastructure. Area can be used as
managed object in the expectations expressed by an intent to achieve system
implementation, technology and infrastructure agnostic.
{width="3.8569444444444443in" height="1.9645833333333333in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1
\- An intent needs to be quantifiable from network data so that the fulfilment
result can be measured and evaluated.
Intent can be categorized based on different user types or different
management scenario types.
### 4.1.2 Intent categorizes based on user types
Based on roles related to 5G networks and network slicing management defined
in clause 4.8 in 3GPP TS 28.530 [4], different kinds of intents are applicable
for different kinds of standardized reference interfaces.
{width="3.8930555555555557in" height="2.3631944444444444in"}
Figure 4.1.2-1: High-level model of different kind of intents expressed by
different roles
**\- Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC):** Intent from
Communication Service Customer enables Communication Service Customer (CSC) to
express which properties of a communication service the CSC may request from
CSP without knowing how to do the detailed management for communication
service. For example, Intent-CSC can be \'Enable a V2X communication service
for a group of vehicles in certain time\'.
**\- Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP):** Intent from
Communication Service Provider enables Communication Service Provider (CSP) to
express an intent about what CSP would like to do for network without knowing
how to do the detailed management for network. For example, Intent-CSP can be
\'Provide a network service supporting V2X communications for highway-417 to
support 500 vehicles simultaneously\'.
**\- Intent from Network Operator (Intent-NOP):** Intent from Network Operator
enables Network Operator (NOP) to provide what NOP would like to do for group
of network elements (i.e. subnetwork) management and control without knowing
how to do the detailed management for the network elements. For example,
Intent-NOP can be \'Provide a radio network service to satisfy the specified
coverage requirements and UE throughput requirement in certain area\'.
### 4.1.3 Intent expectations for different types of management needs
Intent expectations for different types of management needs:
**\- Intent expectation for delivering network and service related object:**
enables a consumer to express the intent expectation for the object (e.g.
network, service, slice) to be delivered by the system. Examples of such
intent expectations are:
\- \"Delivering a radio network in the specified area with specified frequency
information, transport information, and radio information (e.g. range of PCI,
Cell Id), network capacity and performance information\".
\- \"Delivering a radio service in the specified area with certain service
characteristics (e.g. SLS)\".
**\- Intent expectation for network and service related object performance:**
enables a consumer to express the performance objectives of the object (e.g.
network, service, slice) to be assured. Examples of such intent expectations
are:
\- \"Ensure the radio network in the specified area meets certain expected RAN
UE throughput objectives (e.g. expected average RAN UE DL throughput, expected
percentage of UE with the RAN UE DL throughout less than 5 Mbps)\".
\- \"Ensure the radio network in the specified area meets certain expected
coverage objectives (e.g. expected coverage ratio, expected average RSRP)\".
## 4.2 Intent driven management
### 4.2.1 Support for intent driven management
**In intent** driven management, the consumer provides its intent to the
producer of a set of management services that would be consumed in a specific
domain. For example, for the purpose of requesting a radio network with a new
coverage, one possible solution (non-intent driven approach) is to use the set
of classic MnSs (e.g. provisioning MnS) to decommission a cell and instantiate
the cell to a new Node B for the new coverage. The alternative solution
(intent driven approach) is to use management service produced by the domain,
which may be referred to as the Intent-driven MnS by stating the intent for
the radio network for the new coverage, based on the intent, system can
trigger actions (e.g. decommission a cell and instantiate the cell to a new
Node B) to satisfy received intent. The Intent driven MnS could in principle
deployed as a replacement of the deployed classic MnSs for the same network
and service management purpose, where the consumer focuses on the \'what\' and
the producer is concerned about the \'how\'.
The producer of an Intent-driven MnS shall allow the consumer to manage the
service and / or network resources through the use of intents. The producer
shall support the capabilities for intent fulfilment, which include the
following:
\- The consumer states the intent to be fulfilled (which can be implemented by
createMOI operation on the Intent IOC) and the producer receives and
acknowledges the receipt of the intent.
\- The producer validates the intent and then translates the intent to
identify the required internal logic needed to fulfil the intent.
\- The producer executes the compiled logic to fulfil the intent.
\- The producer may report about the fulfilment result of the intent.
### 4.2.2 Intent driven MnS
Introduction of service-based architecture for 5G, in combination with
functional model of business roles, exceeds the level of complexity for
managing network in different scenarios (including scenarios for
design/planning, deployment, maintenance and optimization) both in a single
and multivendor network. New/simpler ways of managing are needed.
Actions of an intent driven MnS related to the fulfilment of intents may be
categorized as intent deployment and intent assurance. Intent fulfilment
refers to the steps taken to satisfy a newly received intent or an update to
an existing intent. The goal of intent fulfilment is to bring the network or
service\'s state to satisfy the new or updated intent. The fulfilment of some
intents may end at the intent deployment, the case, if the intent\'s goal
simply describes the availability or presence of a network or service. In
other cases, the intent\'s goal describes the assurance requirements for a
network or service (e.g. quality of service, end user experience, SLS, etc.)
in addition to the need of existence of a network or service. Those intents
have their fulfilment tied to the operation of the referred network or service
and may require frequent recurring actions to keep those assurance
requirements achieved. This part of the intent fulfilment is referred to as
intent assurance.
An Intent driven MnS allows its consumer to express intents for managing the
network and services and obtain the feedback of intent evaluation result. The
Intent-driven MnS producer have the following intent handling capabilities:
\- Validate the intent.
\- Translate the received intent to executable actions as follows:
\- Performing service or network management tasks.
\- Identifying, formulating and activating policies for service or network
management.
\- Evaluate the result/information about the intent fulfilment, including
intent deployment (e.g. the intent is initially satisfied or not) and intent
assurance (e.g. the intent is continuously satisfied).
Figure 4.2.2-1 shows the model of Intent-driven MnS.
Figure 4.2.2-1: Intent-driven MnS
The intents may be fulfilled by utilizing multiple mechanisms including among
others: Rule-based mechanisms, closed loop mechanisms and AI/ML based
mechanisms. These mechanisms can be combined in solutions of various
complexity, ranging from a simple approach rule-based mechanisms, to more
elaborate solutions combining AI/ML, closed loop automation to ensure the
fulfilment of intents.
When the intent is created by MnS producer based on MnS consumer's request,
the MnS producer may consume other management services (including non-intent
driven MnS and intent driven MnS) to fulfil or satisfy the intent, e.g.
creating new assurance closed control loop instance(s) or using assurance
closed control loop instance (s) to satisfy the intent. The internal
implementation of the intent fulfilment will however not be standardized.
An Intent driven MnS includes the following management capabilities to support
intent lifecycle management:
\- Create an intent, a MnS Consumer request MnS producer to create a new
intent.
\- Activate an intent, MnS Consumer request MnS producer to activate an intent
when the intent is suspended.
\- De-activate an intent, MnS consumer request MnS producer to de-activate an
intent for a temporary suspension.
\- Delete an intent, MnS Consumer request MnS producer to remove an intent.
\- Modify an intent, MnS Consumer request MnS producer to modify the content
of the intent (e.g. expectation targets).
\- Query an intent, MnS Consumer request MnS producer to return the content
and state (e.g. active, inactive) of the intent.
### 4.2.3 Intent translation
The Intent driven MnS producer is the provider of Intent driven MnS and is
responsible for deriving activities for networks and services or other
intent(s).
The MnS consumer may consume Intent Driven MnS(s) provided by the Intent
driven MnS producer(s) or may have the consumer role for non-intent MnS
producers.
The conflict(s) including conflict between the intent and other intent(s)
and/or Non-intent requirements needs to be detected and resolved during the
intent translation. Figure 4.2.3-1 illustrate the potential way to satisfy
intent-CSC :
\- Intent-CSC MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for communication
services. Intent-CSC MnS producers receive the expressed intent and translate
it to Intent-CSP or network requirements, then may consume Intent-CSP MnS(s)
or Non-Intent MnS(s) for network to fulfil the intent-CSC.
\- Intent-CSP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network services.
Intent-CSP MnS producers receive the intent and translate it to new Intents
for NOP or network requirements, then may consume Intent-NOP MnS(s) or Non-
Intent MnS(s) for NE to fulfil the intent-CSP.
\- Intent-NOP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network equipment.
Intent-NOP MnS Producers receive the expressed intent, and translate it to
detailed network requirements, then takes some internal actions to fulfil the
intent-NOP.
{width="4.768055555555556in" height="2.720138888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.3-1: Potential way to satisfy intent-CSC
## 4.3 Intent driven closed-loop
Intent can be used for management and control of closed-loop automation (e.g.
intent can be used to specify the goals for the closed-loop), which means the
intent can be translated to policies and management tasks that the MnS
producer needs to execute for the closed-loop automation. In the intent driven
management approach, the mechanisms that the MnS producer using closed-loop
automation mechanisms to satisfy the intent is the implementation of the MnS
producer and shall not be standardized. The relation of the Intent driven MnS
and the closed-loop automation with the Intent driven MnS producer is shown in
the figure 4.3-1.
{width="3.49375in" height="1.7083333333333333in"}
Figure 4.3-1: Intent driven closed-loop
## 4.4 Relation between rule, policy and intent
An intent specifies the expectations including requirements, goals, and
constraints for a specific service or network management workflow, while a
policy specifies the action(s) to be taken when given condition occurs and
rules specifies the explicit or formula logics to be executed. For certain
scenarios, policies can be used in conjunction with intents to achieve the
autonomous purposes. Figure 4.4-1 describes the relation between rule, policy
and intent in the \"what-how\" view. As it now stands, the telecom systems are
mainly focused on \"how\" and \"less what\". The current 5G networks brings
more operational complexities, and the telecom system need to be able to adapt
their operation to the business objectives of the operator as well as
expectations of customer, which is driving customer to shift the focus from
\"how\" to \"what\". The first step towards that shift, has been shift from
\"Rule based management\" to \"Policy driven management\", with more focus on
\"how\" and less on \"what\" covering domain specific issues/aspects (an
example for policy is when the average throughput is lower than certain
threshold, take specified actions). As technologies are evolving and the level
of complexity exceeds, the need for an abstraction level description (i.e.
Intent) becomes more apparent (an example for intent is the target average
throughput for certain area should be assured). An intent driven system will
be able to learn the behaviour of networks and services and allows a customer
to provide the desired state, without detailed knowledge of how to get to the
desired state.
{width="2.6527777777777777in" height="2.5069444444444446in"}
Figure 4.4-1: Relation between rule, policy and intent
## 4.5 General concept of Intent Content
### 4.5.1 Intent Expectation
In the most basic form, a consumer may use an intent to express to the
producer the need for:
\"an object O with characteristics S\".
Where the characteristics S reflect the requirements, goals and contexts for
an object.
The object may be a 3GPP managed object like a network slice, subnetwork (e.g.
radio network) or other objects like a service. The consumer may desire the
same requirements, goals and contexts for multiple objects with the same
properties, in which case the intent may be stated for a list of objects as
\"objects {O~1~,O~2~, ...O~N~} with characteristics S\"
However, the consumer may wish to express different requirements, goals and
contexts for objects with different properties. It is in that case necessary
to distinguish the requirements, goals and contexts to be achieved for each
set of objects with the same properties. Correspondingly, the combination of
requirements, goals and contexts for each set of objects with the same
properties is the Intent Expectation. Also the consumer may wish to
distinguish the requirements, goals and contexts for different objects with
the same properties, in this case, the combination of requirements, goals and
contexts for each object instance may be contained in a separate Intent
Expectation or requirements, goals and contexts for the multiple object
instances may be combined in a single Intent Expectation.
### 4.5.2 Expectation Targets
For a given intent expectation, the desired characteristics of the object(s)
are the expectation targets to be achieved. The expectation targets may
include the metrics that characterize the performance of the object(s) or some
abstract index that expresses the behaviour of the object(s). A given intent
expectation may include multiple expectation targets on the same object or on
different objects with the same properties. A consumer may for example require
for the Network Slice object(s) that User throughput > 5Mbps and latency \ 80 %\", where the expectation target
(HandoverFailureRate \ 80
%). In this example, the producer will perform handover tasks to achieve the
expectation target \"HandoverFailureRate \ 80 %\".
Similar to the target, the context is also a tuple of \ but where the values having a different semantics.
Although contexts and targets have the same structure, to distinguish between
what needs to be achieved and the context which is only to be considered as
required conditions, the context has to be explicitly stated separate from the
target. For example, if the consumer wishes that the Radio Link Failure rate
(RLF) is less than 2 % when the load is more than 50 %. If the context (i.e.
load > 50 %) is not explicitly stated/modelled as context, the producer could
interpret the request to mean (RLF \ 50 %).
For a given expectation, the specific list of expectation targets may be
desired to be achieved for given combined contexts, i.e. besides the
expectation targets, an expectation may state a list of contexts which apply
to all expectation targets within the intent expectation. Similarly, there may
be contexts that apply to all expectations within a given intent.
Correspondingly, both Intent expectations and intents should be modelled to
only contain the contexts that apply to all the contained sub elements.
# 5 Specification Level Requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Intent containing an expectation for delivering radio network
#### 5.1.1.1 Introduction
This use case describes a scenario where a MnS consumer express intent
containing an expectation for delivering a radio network in the specified area
to a MnS producer. In this scenario, MnS consumer expresses its intent
expectation for delivering a radio network to MnS producer, which may include
coverage area information (e.g. geographical areas), radio setting parameter
sets (e.g. frequency information, range of gNB Id, range of PCI, range of Cell
Id, range of nRTAC), transport setting parameters (including OM transport
information (e.g. OMlocalIPaddress, OMremoteIPaddress, OMNextHopInfo) and NG
transport information (e.g. list of NGlocalIPaddress, list of
NGremoteIPaddress)), and supported network capacity information (e.g. maximum
UE number) and network performance information (e.g. UL/DL throughput).
Based on the intent containing an expectation for radio network provisioning
received, MnS producer identifies corresponding RAN NEs discovered in the
specified coverage area, analyses and generates the configuration parameters
(including radio configuration parameters and transport configuration
parameters) for each identified RAN NE and corresponding Cells, creates MOI(s)
for each RAN NEs and Cells and configure the created MOI(s), and performs
verification for configured RAN NEs to enable the radio network in the
specified area is successfully delivered and satisfy the received intent.
MnS producer notifies MnS consumer about the fulfilment information of the
intent containing an expectation for delivering radio network after the
verification is finished.
#### 5.1.1.2 Requirements
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_Net-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation for
delivering a radio network for the specified area to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_Net-CON-2** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to obtain fulfilment information of the intent
containing an expectation for delivering a radio network.
### 5.1.2 Intent containing an expectation for delivering a radio service
#### 5.1.2.1 Introduction
This use case describes a scenario where a MnS consumer express intent
containing an expectation for delivering radio service (radio network as
service) in the specified area to a MnS producer.
In this scenario, MnS consumer expresses its intent containing an expectation
for delivering a radio service to MnS producer, which may include coverage
area information (e.g. geographical areas), and supported service capacity
information (e.g. maxNumberofUEs, activityFactor) and service performance
information (e.g. serviceType, dLThptPerUEPerSubnet, uLThptPerUEPerSubnet).
Note: The slice agnostic parameters in RAN SliceProfile can be used for
service capacity information and service performance information.
Based on the intent containing an expectation for delivering a radio service
received, MnS producer decides to use radio network with slicing or radio
network without slicing to support the intent:
\- In case of using radio network with slicing, the use case for network slice
subnet creation defined in 3GPP TS 28.531 [2] can be reused.
\- In case of using radio network without slicing, MnS producer identifies
corresponding RAN NEs and cells in the specified coverage area to support the
intent, analyses and configure the service specific configuration parameters
for corresponding RAN NE and Cells (e.g. RRM policies, supported services).
MnS producer notifies MnS consumer about the fulfilment information of the
intent containing an expectation for delivering a radio service after the
service configuration is finished.
#### 5.1.2.2 Requirements
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_Sev-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation for
delivering a radio service for the specified area to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_Sev-CON-2** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to obtain fulfilment information of the intent
containing an expectation for a service.
### 5.1.3 Intent containing an expectation for delivering a service at the
edge
#### 5.1.3.1 Introduction
This use case describe a scenario where the MnS consumer, express the intent
containing an expectation for delivering a serviceat the edge of the network.
The intent expectation for a service includes service type (URLLC, eMBB),
service requirements (number of concurrent subscribers and number of
concurrent sessions), service availability and the target location.
#### 5.1.3.2 Requirements
**REQ-Intent_Deploy_Net-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling authorized MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation
for delivering a service at the edge of the networkto MnS producer.
### 5.1.4 Intent containing an expectation on coverage performance to be
assured
#### 5.1.4.1 Introduction
In this scenario, MnS consumer expresses its intent containing an expectation
on coverage performances to be assured in the specified areas to NEP, which
may include area information (e.g. geographical area), RATs (e.g. NR only,
EUTRAN only, or all RATs), coverage targets (e.g. target average RSRP, target
weak coverage ratio).
Based on the intent containing an expectation on coverage performance to be
assured received, MnS producer collects and analyses corresponding coverage
related data (e.g. RSRPs of the serving cell and neighbour cells reported by
each UE with anonymous id (e.g. C-RNTI) and location information in the MDT
reports)) of corresponding RAN NEs in the specified areas, identifies the
potential coverage issues which will impact the coverage targets satisfaction,
analyses the identified coverage issue and corresponding solutions, evaluates,
decides and adjusts the coverage configuration parameters. The Artificial
intelligence or machine learning technologies may be used in above workflow to
satisfy the intent, for example, online iteration optimization technologies
may be used to selecting the best coverage configuration parameters rapidly.
MnS producer continuously monitors the coverage performance (e.g. weak
coverage ratio, average RSRP) for the specified area, and decides whether
coverage targets described in the intent is satisfied. If not satisfied, NEP
iteratively executes above workflows (including collect, identification,
analysis, evaluation, decision and adjustment) to fulfil the coverage targets.
MnS producer may notify MnS consumer about the intent fulfilment information,
including coverage performance for the specified area (e.g. weak coverage
ratio, coverage hole ratio, average RSRP) which enables MnS consumer to
monitor the intent containing an expectation on coverage performance to be
assured.
#### 5.1.4.2 Requirements
**REQ-Intent_Opt_Cov-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation on coverage
performance to be assured for the specified area to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent_Opt_Cov-CON-2** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to obtain fulfilment information of the intent
containing an expectation on coverage performance to be assured.
### 5.1.5 Intent containing an expectation on RAN UE throughput performance to
be assured
#### 5.1.5.1 Introduction
In this scenario, MnS consumer expresses its intent containing an intent
expectation on RAN UE throughput performance to be assured to MnS producer,
which may include area information (e.g. geographical area), RATs (e.g. NR
only, EUTRAN only, or all RATs), RAN UE throughput targets (e.g. target
average UL/DL RAN UE throughput, target percentage of UE with low UL/DL RAN UE
throughput (e.g. \ 50 Mbps)), optional performance scope (e.g. specific
service type, specific UE groups).
Based on the intent containing expectation on RAN UE throughput performance to
be assured received, MnS producer collects and analyses corresponding RAN UE
throughput related data in the specified areas, identifies the potential RAN
UE throughput issues (e.g. low RAN UE throughput for certain areas, high load
for certain areas, frequent handover), which will impact RAN UE throughput
intent satisfaction, analyses, evaluates, decides and adjusts the radio
feature configuration parameters for impacted RAN NEs/Cells in the specified
areas. The Artificial intelligence or machine learning technologies may be
used to select the optimal radio feature configuration parameters set rapidly
to satisfy RAN UE throughput target.
MnS producer continuously monitors the RAN UE throughput performance (e.g.
average UL/DL RAN UE throughput, percentage of UE with low UL/DL RAN UE
throughput (e.g. \ 50 Mbps)) for the specified area, and decides whether RAN
UE throughput target is satisfied.
MnS producer may notify MnS consumer about the intent fulfilment information,
including the RAN UE throughput performance (e.g. average UL/DL RAN UE
throughput, percentage of UE with low UL/DL RAN UE throughput) for the
specified area which enables MnS consumer to monitor the intent containing an
expectation on RAN UE throughput performance to be assured.
#### 5.1.5.2 Requirements
**REQ-Intent_Opt_Thp-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to express intent containing an expectation on RAN UE
throughput performance to be assured for specified area to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent_Opt_Thp-CON-2** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to obtain fulfilment information of intent containing an
expectation on RAN UE throughput performance to be assured.
## 5.2 Generic requirements for intent driven MnS
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS-CON-1** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to request MnS producer to create a new Intent instance.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS-CON-2** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to request MnS producer to remove an Intent instance.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS-CON-3** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS producer to report intent fulfilment information.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS-CON-4** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to request MnS producer to modify an existing Intent
instance.
**REQ-Intent_Driven_MnS-CON-5** The intent driven MnS shall have capability
enabling MnS consumer to query intent instance information from MnS producer.
# 6 Stage 2 definition for Intent Driven Management
## 6.1 Management operation for Intent (MnS component type A)
The operations (e.g. createMOI operations) and notifications (e.g.
notifyMOIcreation) of generic provisioning MnS defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3]
can be used for intent lifecycle management. The intent can be treated as
object instance.
## 6.2 Information model definition for Intent (MnS component typeB)
### 6.2.1 Generic Information model definition
#### 6.2.1.1 Class diagram
##### 6.2.1.1.1 Relationship
NOTE: The model for IntentReport is not addressed in the present document.
Figure 6.2.1.1.1-1: Relationship UML diagram for intent
##### 6.2.1.1.2 Inheritance
{width="1.6548611111111111in" height="1.5833333333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.1.1.2-1: Inheritance UML diagram for intent
#### 6.2.1.2 Class definition
##### 6.2.1.2.1 Intent \>
##### 6.2.1.2.1.1 Definition {#definition .H6}
This IOC represents the properties of an Intent driven management information
between MnS consumer and MnS producer.
The Intent IOC contains one or multiple IntentExpectation(s) which includes
MnS consumer\'s requirements, goals and contexts given to a 3GPP system _._
The Intent IOC includes the attribute objectClass and objectInstance from the
TOP IOC. The value of attribute objectClass is \"Intent\" and the value of
attribute objectInstance is the DN of the instance of Intent IOC.
##### 6.2.1.2.1.2 Attributes {#attributes .H6}
The Intent IOC includes attributes inherited from TOP IOC (defined in 3GPP TS
28.622 [6]) and the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.2.1.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
intentExpectations M T T F F userLabel M T T F F intentContexts O T T F F
intentFulfilmentinfo M T F F T
##### 6.2.1.2.1.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints .H6}
None.
###### 6.2.1.2.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 6.2.1.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 6.2.1.3 DataType definition
##### 6.2.1.3.1 IntentExpectation \>
##### 6.2.1.3.1.1 Definition {#definition-1 .H6}
IntentExpectation \>represents MnS consumer\'s requirements, goals
and contexts given to a 3GPP system _._
##### 6.2.1.3.1.2 Attributes {#attributes-1 .H6}
The IntentExpectation includes the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.3.1.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
expectationId M T T T T expectationVerb O T T T F expectationObject M T T F F
expectationTargets M T T F F expectationContexts O T T F F
expectationfulfilmentInfo O T F F T NOTE: The scenariospecific
IntentExpectations in clause 6.2.2 are defined utilizing the constructs of
this generic IntentExpectation \>.
##### 6.2.1.3.1.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-1 .H6}
None.
###### 6.2.1.3.1.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
##### 6.2.1.3.2 ExpectationObject \>
##### 6.2.1.3.2.1 Definition {#definition-2 .H6}
The ExpectationObject \> represents the Object to which the
IntentExpectation should apply.
##### 6.2.1.3.2.2 Attributes {#attributes-2 .H6}
The ExpectationObject includes the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.3.2.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
objectType CM T T F F objectInstance CM T T F F objectContexts O T T F F
##### 6.2.1.3.2.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-2 .H6}
Table 6.2.1.3.2.3-1
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +===================+=================================================+ | objectType | Condition: The intent expectation is not for a | | | specific object instance or MnS consumer have | | Support Qualifier | no knowledge of the DN of this specific object | | | instance. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | objectInstance | Condition: The intent expectation is for a | | | specific object instance and MnS consumer have | | Support Qualifier | the knowledge of the DN of this specific object | | | instance. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
##### 6.2.1.3.3 ExpectationTarget \>
##### 6.2.1.3.3.1 Definition {#definition-3 .H6}
The ExpectationTarget \> represents the targets of the
IntentExpectation that are required to be achieved.
##### 6.2.1.3.3.2 Attributes {#attributes-3 .H6}
The ExpectationTarget includes the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.3.3.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
targetName M T T F T targetCondition M T T F F targetValueRange M T T F F
targetContexts O T T F F targetfulfilmentInfo O T F F T
##### 6.2.1.3.3.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-3 .H6}
None.
###### 6.2.1.3.3.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
##### 6.2.1.3.4 Context \>
##### 6.2.1.3.4.1 Definition {#definition-4 .H6}
The Context \> represents the properties of a context. A context
describes the condition. The context may apply to the intent, the intent
expectation, the intent targets or to the object.
##### 6.2.1.3.4.2 Attributes {#attributes-4 .H6}
The Context includes the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.3.4.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
contextAttribute M T T F F contextCondition M T T F F contextValueRange M T T
F F
##### 6.2.1.3.4.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-4 .H6}
None.
##### 6.2.1.3.5 FulfilmentInfo \>
##### 6.2.1.3.5.1 Definition {#definition-5 .H6}
This dataType represents the properties of a specific fulfilment information
for an aspect of the intent (i.e. either an expectation, a target or the whole
intent). The fulfilment information describes the MnS producer\'s assessment
of the degree to which a specific aspect of the intent is being fulfilled. The
MnS consumer may however assess the fulfilment differently, e.g. the MnS
consumer may evaluate the delivered outcome or network state to compute its
fulfilment satisfaction.
The **fulfilmentStatus** field indicates whether the intent is being fulfilled
or not being fulfilled. The possible values of the fulfilment include:
**\- NOTFULFILLED** : This is the default status for any aspect of the intent
and the **fulfilmentStatus** remains as \"**NOTFULFILLED** \" until the MnS
producer is satisfied that the actions undertaken meet the requirements as
stated by the MnS consumer.
**\- FULFILLED** : This is the status if the MnS producer considers that the
intent, expectation or target is being fulfilled as desired by the MnS
consumer that created the intent. The consumer may provide a fulfilment
satisfaction report that either confirms the fulfilment or describes its
evaluation of the fulfilment.
The degree of fulfilment of an intent with the **NOTFULFILLED** status may
have multiple explanations and related states. These different progress states
and conditions are recorded in the **notFulfilledState** field. The possible
values of the **notFulfilledState** include:
**\- ACKNOWLEDGED** : this is the default state and is the initial
**notFulfilledState** right after the intent has been received.
**\- COMPLIANT** : this is the state after the feasibility check has been run
for the intent and the intent accepted as being compliant for fulfilment.
**\- DEGRADED** : this is the state if an intent that was previously fulfilled
but after a period of observation it is found not be meeting the initially
stated requirements.
**\- SUSPENDED** : this is the state if the MnS producer decides to suspect
the fulfilment of the intent, expectation or target for whatever reason. This
**notFulfilledState** shall be supported by a reason such as the event(s) that
were observed when fulfilment was attempted.
**\- TERMINATED** : This state is registered if the respective aspect of the
intent (i.e. either an expectation, a target or the whole intent) shall not be
considered for fulfilment e.g. when an authorized MnS consumer sends an
indication terminating the specific aspect of the intent. For instance, if the
MnS consumer sends an update of the intent in which a particular target is
eliminated, then that target shall be marked as cancelled.
**\- FULFILMENTFAILED** : This is the state when the MnS producer decides that
the intent, expectation or target cannot be fulfilled. This state shall be
supported by a reason such as the event(s) that were observed when fulfilment
was attempted.
For some scenarios (in particular for the notFulfilledState with value
**\"SUSPENDED\"** and \"**FULFILMENTFAILED** \"), the **notFulfilledState**
should be supported by extra information describing or related to the state.
This extra information is recorded into the **notFulfilledReasons** field.
##### 6.2.1.3.5.2 Attributes {#attributes-5 .H6}
The FulfilmentInfo includes the following attributes.
Table 6.2.1.3.5.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
**fulfilmentStatus** M T F F T **notFulfilledState** CM T F F T
**notFulfilledReasons** CO T F F T
##### 6.2.1.3.5.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-5 .H6}
Table 6.2.1.3.5.3-1
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +=========================+===========================================+ | **notFulfilledState** | Condition: when **FulfilmentInfo** is | | | implemented for **IntentFulfilmentInfo** | | Support Qualifier | | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **notFulfilledReasons** | Condition: when FulfillmentInfo is | | | implemented for **IntentFulfilmentInfo** | | Support Qualifier | | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
###### 6.2.1.3.5.4 Notifications
The notifications specified for the IOC using this \> for its
attribute(s), shall be applicable.
#### 6.2.1.4 Attribute definition
Table 6.2.1.4-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +======================+======================+======================+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | type: String | | | user assignable) | | | | name of the intent. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | isOrdered: N/A | | | Applicable | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | intentExpectations | It describes the | type: | | | expectations | IntentExpectation | | | including | | | | requirements, goals | multiplicity: 1..* | | | and contexts | | | | (including | isOrdered: False | | | constraints and | | | | filter information) | isUnique: True | | | given to a 3GPP | | | | system. It states | defaultValue: None | | | the list of specific | | | | outcomes desired to | isNullable: False | | | be realized for | | | | expectation | | | | object(s). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | intentFulfilmentInfo | It describes status | type: FulfilmentInfo | | | of fulfilment of an | | | | intent and the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | related reasons for | | | | that status. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | isUnique: N/A | | | Applicable | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expec | It describes status | type: FulfilmentInfo | | tationFulfilmentInfo | of fulfilment of an | | | | intentExpectation | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | and the related | | | | reasons for that | isOrdered: N/A | | | status. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | targetFulfilmentInfo | It describes status | type: FulfilmentInfo | | | of fulfilment of an | | | | expectationTarget | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | and the related | | | | reasons for that | isOrdered: N/A | | | status. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fulfilmentStatus | It describes the | type: ENUM | | | current status of | | | | the intent | multiplicity: 1 | | | fulfilment result, | | | | which is configured | isOrdered: N/A | | | by MnS producer and | | | | can be read by MnS | isUnique: N/A | | | consumer. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"FULFILLED\", | isNullable: False | | | \"NOT_FULFILLED\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | * | It describes the | type: ENUM | | _notFulfilledState_ _| current progress of | | | | or the reason for | multiplicity: 1 | | | not achieving | | | | fulfilment for the | isOrdered: N/A | | | intent, | | | | intentExpectation or | isUnique: N/A | | | expectationTarget. | | | | It is | defaultValue: None | | | configured/written | | | | by MnS producer and | isNullable: False | | | can be read by MnS | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"ACKNOWLEDGED\", | | | | \"COMPLIANT\", | | | | \"DEGRADED\", | | | | \"SUSPENDED\", | | | | \"TERMINATED\" | | | | \"FULFILMENTFAILED\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ |__n | It describes the | type: String | | otFulfilled_ _Reasons | reasons/observations | | | | related to the | multiplicity: * | | | specific noted | | | | * | isOrdered: False | | |_ notFulfilledState**| | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | intentContexts | It describes the | type: Context | | | list of | | | | IntentContext(s) | multiplicity: * | | | which represents the | | | | constraints and | isOrdered: False | | | conditions that | | | | should apply for the | isUnique: True | | | entire intent even | | | | if there may be | defaultValue: None | | | specific contexts | | | | defined for specific | isNullable: False | | | parts of the intent. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | triple of | | | | (attribute, | | | | condition, value | | | | range) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expectationId | A user-friendly (and | type: String | | | user assignable) | | | | name of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expectationVerb | It describes the | type: String | | | characteristic of | | | | the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intentExpectation | | | | and is the property | isOrdered:N/A | | | that describes the | | | | types of | isUnique: N/A | | | intentExpectations. | | | | Examples of verbs | defaultValue: None | | | and their related | | | | types of expectation | isNullable: False | | | are | | | | | | | | Deliver: | | | | Delive | | | | ryIntentExpectation, | | | | e.g. Deliver a RAN | | | | network, Service, | | | | Slice, function | | | | | | | | Ensure: | | | | Assuran | | | | ceintentExpectation, | | | | e.g. Ensure the | | | | performance targets | | | | values | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | DELIVER, ENSURE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expectationObject | It describes the | type: | | | expectation objects | ExpectationObject | | | to which the | | | | IntentExpectation | multiplicity: 1 | | | should apply. | | | | | isOrdered:N/A | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ |** objectType** | It describes the | type: Enum | | | type of expectation | | | | object of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | IntentExpectation | | | | that are required to | isOrdered: N/A | | | be applied on. It | | | | can be class name of | isUnique: N/A | | | the managed object. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: see | | | | scenario specific | isNullable: False | | | IntentExpectation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstance | It describes a | type: DN | | | specific object | | | | instance (e.g. | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance of managed | | | | object) to which the | isOrdered: N/A | | | intentExpectation | | | | should apply. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | defaultValue: None | | | Applicable | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectContexts | It describes the | type: Context | | | list of | | | | ObjectContext(s) | multiplicity: * | | | which represents the | | | | constraints and | isOrdered: False | | | conditions to be | | | | used as filter | isUnique: True | | | information to | | | | identify the | defaultValue: None | | | object(s) to which a | | | | given | isNullable: False | | | intentExpectation | | | | should apply. Note | | | | there may be other | | | | constraints and | | | | conditions defined | | | | either for the | | | | entire intent, for | | | | the specific | | | | intentExpectation or | | | | for the | | | | expectationTarget of | | | | the considered | | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | | | | The concrete | | | | ObjectContext | | | | depends on the | | | | ExpectationObject, | | | | which is defined in | | | | clause 6.2.2. All | | | | the concrete | | | | ObjectContexts | | | | follow the common | | | | structure of | | | | ObjectContext | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expectationTargets | It describes the | type: | | | list of | ExpectationTarget | | | ExpectationTarget(s) | | | | which represent | multiplicity: 1..* | | | specific outcomes on | | | | the metrics that | isOrdered: False | | | characterize the | | | | performance of the | isUnique: True | | | object(s) or some | | | | abstract index that | defaultValue: None | | | expresses the | | | | behavior of the | isNullable: False | | | object(s) that are | | | | desired to be | | | | realized for a given | | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | | | | The concrete | | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | depends on the | | | | ExpectationObject, | | | | which is defined in | | | | clause 6.2.2. All | | | | the concrete | | | | ExpectationTargets | | | | follow the common | | | | structure of | | | | ExpectationTarget | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | expectationContexts | It describes the | type: Context | | | list of context(s) | | | | which represents the | multiplicity: * | | | constraints and | | | | conditions that | isOrdered: False | | | should apply for a | | | | specific | isUnique: True | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | Note there may be | | | | other constraints | isNullable: False | | | and conditions | | | | defined for the | | | | entire intent or for | | | | specific parts of | | | | the | | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | depends on | | | | Expectation Object | | | | in the | | | | IntentExpectation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | targetName | It describes the | type: String | | | name of the | | | | expectation target | multiplicity: 1 | | | which represents | | | | specific outcomes on | isOrdered: N/A | | | the metrics that | | | | characterize the | isUnique: N/A | | | performance of the | | | | object(s) or some | defaultValue: Null | | | abstract index that | | | | expresses the | isNullable: True | | | behavior of the | | | | object(s) that are | | | | desired to be | | | | realized for a given | | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | depends on | | | | ExpectationObject in | | | | the | | | | IntentExpectation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | targetCondition | It expresses the | type: Enum | | | limits within which | | | | the targetName is | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowed/supposed to | | | | be. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | > allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | > IS_EQUAL_TO\", | | | | > | defaultValue: \"is | | | \"IS_LESS_THAN\", | equal to\" | | | > \" | | | | IS_GREATER_THAN\", | isNullable: False | | | > \" | | | | IS_WITHIN_RANGE\", | | | | > \"I | | | | S_OUTSIDE_RANGE\", | | | | > \"IS_ONE_OF\", | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_ | | | | TO_OR_LESS_THAN", | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO_ | | | | OR_GREATER_THAN\", | | | | > \"IS_NOT_ONE_ | | | | OF\",\"IS_ALL_OF\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | targetValueRange | It describes the | type: Real | | | range of values that | | | | applicable to the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | targetName and the | | | | targetCondition. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | depends on the | | | | targetCondition. | defaultValue: Null | | | | | | | The value will be a | isNullable: True | | | single real number | | | | when the | | | | targetCondition is | | | | either | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO\", | | | | \"IS_LESS_THAN\", | | | | \" | | | | IS_GREATER_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_T | | | | O_OR_LESS_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO | | | | _OR_GREATER_THAN" | | | | | | | | The value will be a | | | | pair of real numbers | | | | when the | | | | targetCondition is | | | | either | | | | \" | | | | IS_WITHIN_RANGE\", | | | | \" | | | | IS_OUTSIDE_RANGE\" | | | | | | | | The value will be a | | | | list when the | | | | targetCondition is | | | | \"IS_ONE_OF\", | | | | \"IS_NOT_ONE_OF\ | | | | ",\"IS_ALL_OF\"See | | | | NOTE 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | targetContexts | It describes the | type: Context | | | list of constraints | | | | and conditions that | multiplicity: * | | | should apply for a | | | | specific | isOrdered: False | | | expectationTarget. | | | | Note there may be | isUnique: True | | | other constraints | | | | and conditions | defaultValue: None | | | defined for the | | | | entire intent or the | isNullable: False | | | intentExpectation. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | | | | Applicable | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | contextAttribute | It describes a | type: String | | | specific attribute | | | | of or related to the | multiplicity: 1 | | | object or to | | | | characteristics | isOrdered: N/A | | | thereof (e.g. its | | | | control parameter, | isUnique: N/A | | | gauge, counter, KPI, | | | | weighted metric, | defaultValue: Null | | | etc) to which the | | | | expectation should | isNullable: True | | | apply or an | | | | attribute related to | | | | the operating | | | | conditions of the | | | | object (such as | | | | weather conditions, | | | | load conditions, | | | | etc). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | contextCondition | It expresses the | type: Enum | | | limits within which | | | | the ContextAttribute | multiplicity: 1 | | | is allowed/supposed | | | | to be | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO\", | | | | \"IS_LESS_THAN\", | defaultValue: \"is | | | \" | equal to\" | | | IS_GREATER_THAN\", | | | | \" | isNullable: False | | | IS_WITHIN_RANGE\", | | | | \ | | | | "IS_OUTSIDE_RANGE, | | | | \"IS_ONE_OF\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO_OR | | | | LESS_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO_ | | | | OR_GREATER_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_NOT_ONE_ | | | | OF\",\"IS_ALL_OF\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | contextValueRange | It describes the | type: Real | | | range of values that | | | | applicable to the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | ContextAttribute and | | | | the | isOrdered: False | | | ContextCondition. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | AllowedValue: | | | | depends on the | defaultValue: Null | | | contextCondition | | | | | isNullable: True | | | The value will be a | | | | single real number | | | | when the | | | | contextCondition is | | | | either | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO\", | | | | \"IS_LESS_THAN\", | | | | \" | | | | IS_GREATER_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_T | | | | O_OR_LESS_THAN\", | | | | \"IS_EQUAL_TO\ | | | | _OR_GREATER_THAN\" | | | | | | | | The value will be a | | | | pair of real numbers | | | | when the | | | | contextCondition is | | | | either | | | | \" | | | | IS_WITHIN_RANGE\", | | | | \" | | | | IS_OUTSIDE_RANGE\" | | | | | | | | The value will be a | | | | list when the | | | | contextCondition is | | | | \"IS_ONE_OF\", | | | | \"IS_NOT_ONE_O | | | | F\",\"IS_ALL_OF\". | | | | | | | | See NOTE 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: For | | | | \"IS_ALL_OF\", the | | | | value shall be a | | | | match of the entire | | | | list. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.2.1.5 Common notifications
##### 6.2.1.5.1 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [3], that
an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance shall capture the DN of an instance of a class
defined in the present document.
Table 6.2.1.5.1-1
Name Qualifier Notes
* * *
notifyMOICreation O -- notifyMOIDeletion O -- notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges O
--
### 6.2.2 Scenario specific IntentExpectation definition
#### 6.2.2.1 Scenario specific IntentExpectation definition
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Radio Network Expectation
##### 6.2.2.1.1.1 Definition {#definition-6 .H6}
Radio Network Expectation is an IntentExpectation which can be used to
represent MnS consumer\'s expectations for radio network (RAN SubNetwork)
delivering and performance assurance.
The Radio Network Expectation is defined by utilizing the construct of the
generic IntentExpectation \> with set of allowed values and
concrete dataTypes specified.
Following are the specific allowed values when implemented the
IntentExpectation for Radio Network Expectation.
Table 6.2.2.1.1.1-1
Attribute Name Allowed Values
* * *
objectType (CM) RAN SubNetwork objectInstance (CM) DN of the RAN SubNetwork
NOTE: Following are the qualifier description for attribute \"objectType\" and
\"objectInstance\":
\- In case of the intent expectation is not for a specific RAN SubNetwork
instance or/and MnS consumer have no knowledge of the DN of this RAN
SubNetwork instance, the attribute \"objectType\" needs to be specified.
\- In case of the intent expectation is for a specific RAN SubNetwork instance
and MnS consumer have the knowledge of the DN of this RAN SubNetwork instance,
the attribute \"objectInstance\" needs to specified.
##### 6.2.2.1.1.2 ObjectContexts {#objectcontexts .H6}
Following provides the concrete ObjectContexts for Radio Network Expectation
based on the common structure of ObjectContext. The properties of the
attributes in the following table should be same with properties of
ObjectContexts defined in clause 6.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.2.1.1.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
coverageAreaPolygonContext O T T F F coverageTACContext O T T F F
**pLMNContext** O T T F F **nRFqBandContext** **O** T T F F **rATContext** O T
T F F
##### 6.2.2.1.1.3 ExpectationTargets {#expectationtargets .H6}
Following provides the concrete ExpectationTargets for Radio Network
Expectation based on the common structure of ExpectationTarget. The properties
of the attributes in the following table should be same with properties of
ExpectationTargets defined in clause 6.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.2.1.1.3-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
**weakRSRPRatioTarget** O T T F F **lowSINRRatioTarget** O T T F F
**aveULRANUEThptTarget** O T T F F **aveDLRANUEthptTarget** O T T F F
**lowULRANUEThptRatioTarget** O T T F F **lowDLRANUEThptRatioTarget** O T T F
F
##### 6.2.2.1.2 Service Support Expectation
##### 6.2.2.1.2.1 Definition {#definition-7 .H6}
Service Support Expectation is an IntentExpectation which can be used to
represent MnS consumer\'s expectations for service deployment.
The Service Support Expectation is defined utilizing the constructs of the
generic IntentExpectation \> with set of allowed values and
concrete dataTypes specified.
Following are the specific allowed values when implemented the
IntentExpectation for Service Support Expectation.
Table 6.2.2.1.2.1-1
Attribute Allowed Values
* * *
objectType (CM) ServiceSupport objectInstance (CM) DN of the ServiceSupport
NOTE: Following are the qualifier description for attribute \"objectType\" and
\"objectInstance\":
\- In case of the intent expectation is not for a specific service instance
or/and MnS consumer have no knowledge of the DN of this service instance, the
attribute \"objectType\" needs to be specified.
\- In case of the intent expectation is for a specific service instance and
MnS consumer have the knowledge of the DN of this service instance, the
attribute \"objectInstance\" needs to be specified.
##### 6.2.2.1.2.2 ObjectContexts {#objectcontexts-1 .H6}
Following provides the concrete ObjectContexts for Service Support Expectation
based on the common structure of ObjectContext. The properties of the
attributes in the following table should be the same as the properties of
ObjectContexts defined in clause 6.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.2.1.2.2-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
edgeIdenfiticationIdContext CM T T F F edgeIdenfiticationLocContext CM T T F F
coverageAreaTAContext CM T T F F
NOTE: Following are the qualifier description for attribute
\"edgeIdentificationId\" and \" edgeIdentificationLoc\":
\- In case of the Service deployment is needed at a particular edge data
network, the attribute \" edgeIdentificationId \" needs to be specified.
\- In case of the Service deployment is needed at a particular location, the
attribute \"edgeIdentificationLoc\" needs to be specified.
##### 6.2.2.1.2.3 ExpectationTargets {#expectationtargets-1 .H6}
Following provides the concrete ExpectationTargets for Service Support
Expectation based on the common structure of ExpectationTarget. The attribute
properties defined in the table below should be the same as the properties
defined for ExpectationTargets in clause 6.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.2.1.2.3-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
dlThptPerUETarget O T T F F UlThptPerUETarget O T T F F dLLatencyTarget O T T
F F uLLatencyTarget O T T F F maxNumberofUEsTarget O T T F F
activityFactorTarget O T T F F uESpeedTarget O T T F F
##### 6.2.2.1.2.4 ExpectationContexts {#expectationcontexts .H6}
Following provides the concrete ExpectationContexts for Service Deployment
Expectation based on the common structure of ExpectationContext. The attribute
properties defined in the table below should be the same as the properties
defined for ExpectationContexts in clause 6.2.1.3.
Table 6.2.2.1.2.4-1
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
serviceStartTimeContext O T T F F serviceEndTimeContext O T T F F
uEMobilityLevelContext O T T F F resourceSharingLevelContext O T T F F
#### 6.2.2.2 Attribute definition
Table 6.2.2.2-1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +======================+======================+======================+ | covera | It describes the | type: Context | | geAreaPolygonContext | coverage areas for | | | | the RAN SubNetwork | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied in the form | | | | of polygon. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Covera | defaultValue: None | | | geAreaPolygonContext | | | | is a Context | isNullable: True | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"c | | | | overageAreaPolygon\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of | | | | > CoverageArea | | | | > defined in 3GPP | | | | > TS 28.541 [5] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | coverageTACContext | It describes the | type: Context | | | coverage areas for | | | | the RAN SubNetwork | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied in the form | | | | of TAC. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | CoverageTACContext | defaultValue: None | | | is a Context | | | | including | isNullable: True | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"coverageTAC\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of nRTAC | | | | > defined in 3GPP | | | | > TS 28.541 [5] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | plMNContext | It describes the | type: Context | | | PLMN(s) supported by | | | | the RAN SubNetwork | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | PLMNContext is a | | | | Context including | defaultValue: None | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | isNullable: True | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"pLMN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of PLMNId | | | | > defined in TS 28. | | | | > 658 [10] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **nRFqBandContext** | It describes the | type: Context | | | nRFqBands supported | | | | by the RAN | multiplicity: 1 | | | SubNetwork that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | nRFqBandContext is a | | | | Context including | defaultValue: None | | | attributes: | | | | contextAtrribute, | isNullable: True | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"nRFqBand\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of NRFqBand | | | | > expressed as | | | | > string. Valid | | | | > frequency band | | | | > values are | | | | > specified in | | | | > clause 5.4.2 in | | | | > 3GPP TS 38.104 | | | | > [8] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **rATContext** | It describes the RAT | type: Context | | | supported by the RAN | | | | SubNetwork that the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | RATContext is a | isUnique: N/A | | | Context including | | | | attributes: | defaultValue: None | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | isNullable: True | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"rAT\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of ENUM | | | | > with allowed | | | | > value: UTRAN, | | | | > EUTRAN and NR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | weakRSRPRatioTarget | It describes the | type: | | | downlink weak | ExpectationTarget | | | coverage ratio | | | | target for the RAN | multiplicity: 1 | | | SubNetwork that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | WeakRSRPRatioTarget | | | | is an | defaultValue: None | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | isNullable: True | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondit | | | | ion,targetValueRange | | | | and targetContext. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"weakRSRPRatio\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer with | | | | > allowed value | | | | > [0,100] | | | | > | | | | > \- targetContext: | | | | > WeakRSRPContext | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | weakRSRPRatioTa | It describes the | type: Context | | rget.weakRSRPContext | threshold for | | | | downlink weak RSRP | multiplicity: 1 | | | of the RAN | | | | SubNetwork that the | isOrdered: N/A | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | WeakRSRPContext is a | defaultValue: None | | | Context including | | | | attributes: | isNullable: True | | | contextAtrribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \ | | | | "weakRSRPThreshold\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > Float | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowSINRRatioTarget | It describes the low | type: | | | SINR ratio target | ExpectationTarget | | | for the RAN | | | | SubNetwork that the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | LowSINRRatioTarget | isUnique: N/A | | | is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | defaultValue: None | | | including | | | | attributes: | isNullable: True | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition, | | | | targetValueRange and | | | | targetContxt. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"lowSINRRatio\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer with | | | | > allowed value | | | | > [0,100] | | | | > | | | | > \- targetContext: | | | | > LowSINRContext | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowSINRRatioT | It describes the | type: Context | | arget.lowSINRContext | threshold for low | | | | SINR for RAN | multiplicity: 1 | | | SubNetwork that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | LowSINRContext is a | | | | Context including | defaultValue: None | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | isNullable: True | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > | | | | \"lowSINRThreshold\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aveULRANUEThptTarget | It describes the | type: | | | average UL RAN UE | ExpectationTarget | | | throughput target | | | | for RAN SubNetwork | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | AveULRANUEThptTarget | | | | is an | defaultValue: None | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | isNullable: True | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"aveULRANUEThpt\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \ | | | | "IS_GREATER_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aveDLRANUEThptTarget | It describes the | type: | | | average DL RAN UE | ExpectationTarget | | | throughput target | | | | for RAN SubNetwork | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | AveDLRANUEThptTarget | | | | is an | defaultValue: None | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | isNullable: True | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"aveDLRANUEThpt\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \ | | | | "IS_GREATER_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowUL | It describes the low | type: | | RANUEThptRatioTarget | UL RAN UE throughput | ExpectationTarget | | | ratio target for the | | | | RAN SubNetwork that | multiplicity: 1 | | | the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | LowUL | | | | RANUEThptRatioTarget | defaultValue: None | | | is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | isNullable: True | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition, | | | | targetValueRange and | | | | targetContext. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"l | | | | owULRANUEThptRatio\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer with | | | | > allowed value | | | | > [0,100] | | | | > | | | | > \- targetContext: | | | | > L | | | | owULRANUEThptContext | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowULRA | It describes the | type: Context | | NUEThptRatioTarget.l | threshold for the | | | owULRANUEThptContext | low UL RAN UE | multiplicity: 1 | | | throughput of the | | | | RAN SubNetwork that | isOrdered: N/A | | | the intent | | | | expectation is | isUnique: N/A | | | applied | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | L | | | | owULRANUEThptContext | isNullable: True | | | is a Context | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"lowUL | | | | RANUEThptThreshold\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > Float | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowDL | It describes the low | type: | | RANUEThptRatioTarget | DL RAN UE throughput | ExpectationTarget | | | ratio target for the | | | | RAN SubNetwork that | multiplicity: 1 | | | the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | LowDL | | | | RANUEThptRatioTarget | defaultValue: None | | | is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | isNullable: True | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition, | | | | targetValueRange and | | | | targetContext. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"l | | | | owDLRANUEThptRatio\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN | | | | > \" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > integer with | | | | > allowed value | | | | > [0,100] | | | | > | | | | > \- targetContext: | | | | > L | | | | owDLRANUEThptContext | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lowDLRA | It describes the | type: Context | | NUEThptRatioTarget.l | threshold for the | | | owDLRANUEThptContext | low DL RAN UE | multiplicity: 1 | | | throughput of the | | | | RAN SubNetwork that | isOrdered: N/A | | | the intent | | | | expectation is | isUnique: N/A | | | applied. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | L | | | | owDLRANUEThptContext | isNullable: True | | | is a Context | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"lowDL | | | | RANUEThptThreshold\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > Float | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ser | This describes the | type: Context | | viceStartTimeContext | start time at which | | | | the service shall be | multiplicity: 1 | | | available. This | | | | contributes to the | isOrdered: N/A | | | selection of the | | | | appropriate edge | isUnique: N/A | | | data network to be | | | | used for service | defaultValue: None | | | deployment. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > | | | | \"serviceStartTime\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > DateTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | s | This describes the | type:Context | | erviceEndTimeContext | end time after which | | | | the service shall | multiplicity: 1 | | | not be available. | | | | This contributes to | isOrdered: N/A | | | the selection of the | | | | appropriate edge | isUnique: N/A | | | data network to be | | | | used for service | defaultValue: None | | | deployment. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"serviceEndTime\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > DateTime | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | edgeIde | This identifies the | type: Context | | ntificationIdContext | edge network where | | | | the service needs to | multiplicity: 1 | | | be deployed. For | | | | details see | isOrdered: N/A | | | EDNidentifier | | | | defined in TS 28.538 | isUnique: N/A | | | [9]. This should | | | | be used when the | defaultValue: None | | | edge identification | | | | is known to the | isNullable: True | | | consumer | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"ed | | | | geIdentificationId\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > String | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | edgeIden | This identifies the | type: Context | | tificationLocContext | location where the | | | | service needs to be | multiplicity: 1 | | | deployed. This | | | | should be used when | isOrdered: N/A | | | the edge | | | | identification is | isUnique: N/A | | | not known to the | | | | consumer | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | Following are the | isNullable: True | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"edg | | | | eIdentificationLoc\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > geographical | | | | > target location. | | | | > This will take a | | | | > form of either | | | | > single latitude & | | | | > longitude or a TAI | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | c | It describes | type: Context | | overageAreaTAContext | Tracking Coverage | | | | Areas for service | multiplicity: 1 | | | supporting that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | c | | | | overageAreaTAContext | defaultValue: None | | | is a Context | | | | including | isNullable: True | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"coverageAreaTA\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_ALL_OF\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > a list of Tracking | | | | > Coverage Areas, | | | | > coverageAreaTAList | | | | > in clause 6.3.1 in | | | | > 3GPP TS | | | | > 28.541[5] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dlThptPerUETarget | It describes the DL | type: | | | throughput target by | ExpectationTarget | | | the per UE for the | | | | service Supporting | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. For details | | | | see dlThptPerUE | isUnique: N/A | | | defined in clause | | | | 6.3.1 of TS 28.541 | defaultValue: None | | | [5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | DLThptperUETarget is | | | | an ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"DLThptperUE\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \ | | | | "IS_GREATER_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ulThptPerUETarget | It describes the UL | type: | | | throughput target by | ExpectationTarget | | | the per UE for the | | | | service Supporting | multiplicity: 1 | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applied. For details | | | | see ulThptPerUE | isUnique: N/A | | | defined in clause | | | | 6.3.1 of TS 28.541 | defaultValue: None | | | [5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | ULThptperUETarget is | | | | an ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"ulThptperUE\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \ | | | | "IS_GREATER_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dLLatencyTarget | It describes the DL | type: | | | latency target for | ExpectationTarget | | | the service | | | | Supporting that the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | DLLatencyTarget is | isUnique: N/A | | | an ExpectationTarget | | | | including | defaultValue: None | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | isNullable: True | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | For details see | | | | attribute dlLatency | | | | defined in clause | | | | 6.3.1 of TS 28.541 | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"dLLatency\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uLLatencyTarget | It describes the UL | type: | | | latency target for | ExpectationTarget | | | the service | | | | Supporting that the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. For | isOrdered: N/A | | | details see | | | | attribute ulLatency | isUnique: N/A | | | defined in clause | | | | 6.3.1 of TS 28.541 | defaultValue: None | | | [5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | uLLatencyTarget is | | | | an ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"uLLatency\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \"IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxNumberofUEsTarget | It describes the | type: | | | maximum number of | ExpectationTarget | | | UEs for service | | | | supporting that the | multiplicity: 1 | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. For | isOrdered: N/A | | | details see | | | | attribute | isUnique: N/A | | | maxNumberofUE | | | | defined in clause | defaultValue: None | | | 6.3.1 of of TS | | | | 28.541 [5] | isNullable: True | | | | | | | m | | | | axNumberofUEsContext | | | | is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"maxNumberofUEs\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \" | | | | > IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | activityFactorTarget | It describes the | type: | | | percentage value of | ExpectationTarget | | | the amount of | | | | simultaneous active | multiplicity: 1 | | | UEs to the total | | | | number of UEs where | isOrdered: N/A | | | active means the UEs | | | | are exchanging data | isUnique: N/A | | | with the network for | | | | service supporting | defaultValue: None | | | that the intent | | | | expectation is | isNullable: True | | | applied. For details | | | | see activityFactor | | | | in clause 6.3.1 in | | | | TS 28.541 [5.] | | | | | | | | activityFactorTarget | | | | is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: \" | | | | > activityFactor \" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \" IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uESpeedTarget | It describes the | type: | | | speed (in km/hour) | ExpectationTarget | | | supported | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | for service | | | | supporting that the | isOrdered: N/A | | | intent expectation | | | | is applied. For | isUnique: N/A | | | details see uESpeed | | | | in clause 6.3.1 in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 28.541[5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | uESpeedTarget is an | | | | ExpectationTarget | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | targetName, | | | | targetCondition and | | | | targetValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- targetName: | | | | > \"uESpeed\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetCondition: | | | | > \" | | | | > IS_LESS_THAN\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > targetValueRange: | | | | > Integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uE | It describes the | type: Context | | MobilityLevelContext | mobility level of UE | | | | for service | multiplicity: 1 | | | supporting that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. For | | | | details see | isUnique: N/A | | | uEMobilityLevel in | | | | clause 6.3.1 in TS | defaultValue: None | | | 28.541 [5.] | | | | | isNullable: True | | | uE | | | | MobilityLevelContext | | | | is a Context | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \" uEMobilityLevel | | | | > \" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > ENUM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | resourc | It describes the | type: Context | | eSharingLevelContext | resource sharing | | | | level for service | multiplicity: 1 | | | supporting that the | | | | intent expectation | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applied. For | | | | details see | isUnique: N/A | | | resourceSharinglevel | | | | in clause 6.3.1 in | defaultValue: None | | | TS 28.541 [5]. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | resourc | | | | eSharingLevelContext | | | | is a Context | | | | including | | | | attributes: | | | | contextAttribute, | | | | contextCondition and | | | | contextValueRange. | | | | | | | | Following are the | | | | allowed values: | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | > contextAttribute: | | | | > \"re | | | | sourceSharingLevel\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextCondition: | | | | > \"IS_EQUAL_TO\" | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > contextValueRange: | | | | > ENUM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.3 Procedures for intent management
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This clause describes the procedures for intent management.
### 6.3.2 Create an intent
Figure 6.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure for create a new intent.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Procedure for create an intent
1\. MnS Consumer sends a request to create an intent instance (see createMOI
operation defined in TS 28.532 [3]) to MnS Producer with intent information
for the new intent to be created. The detailed intent information see
attributes (attribute which \"isWritable\" property is \"True\") of the
concrete intent IOC defined in clause 6.2.
2\. Based on the received request, the MnS Producer creates the concrete
intent instance (i.e. instance of intent IOC) and configure the new created
intent MOI with the received intent information.
3\. MnS Producer sends a response (see createMOI operation defined in TS
28.532[3]) to the MnS Consumer with attribute \"objectInstance\" of the
created intent instance.
4\. Based on the created intent instance, MnS Producer performs the
feasibility check of the intent instance. MnS Producer can perform the
feasibility check and get the results based on latest statistics of network or
service performance metrics, historical experience (e.g. experience based
feasible value range or threshold of performance gain), current operating
status including network resource utilization and availability, prediction
results based on network simulation system, and predefined checking rules or
policies.
NOTE 1: Whether to perform the feasibility check can be determined according
to the feasibility check enabling policy (e.g. enforce to perform feasibility
check in any case, enforce to perform feasibility check in specific cases, not
to perform feasibility check in specific cases, not to perform feasibility
check in any case). And the feasibility check enabling policy can be
predefined/configured in the MnS Producer or sent with the intent creation
request from the MnS Consumer.
NOTE 2: No sequence restriction for above step 3 and step 4.
In case the feasibility check result is \'feasible\', following step 5a-step8
are executed::
5a. Based on the created intent, MnS Producer identifies the MOI for managed
entities (e.g. ManagedElement, ManagedFunction) and derives one or more
executable management tasks (including deployment and configuration
parameters) for these managed entities, then MnS producer deploys or
configures corresponding managed entities with deployment and configuration
parameters to satisfy the intent instance.
6\. During the execution of the intent, MnS Producer continuously monitors
intent fulfilment information.
7\. MnS Producer analyses and adjusts the managed entities to ensure the
intent is continuously satisfied.
8\. MnS Producer should notify (see notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges
notification) MnS Consumer about attribute \"objectInstance\" of intent
instance and the intent fulfilment information (see intentFulfilmentinfo,
expectationfulfilmentInfo and targetfulfilmentInfo defined in clause 6.2).
In case the feasibility check result is \'infeasible\', following step 5b is
executed.
5b. MnS Producer notifies MnS consumer about infeasib le for the created
intent instance. The reasons why the feasibility check result is infeasible
(e.g. invalid intent expression, the intent conflict) and corresponding
recommendations also can be included in the notification.
### 6.3.3 Modify an intent
Figure 6.3.3-1 illustrates the procedure for modify an existing intent.
Figure 6.3.3-1: Procedure for modify an intent
1\. MnS Consumer sends a request to modify an intent instance (see
modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [3]) to MnS Producer with
\'objectInstance\' of the intent MOI and intent information to be modified.
The detailed intent information see attributes (attributes which
\"isWritable\" property is \"True\") of the concrete intent IOC defined in
clause 6.2.
2\. Based on the received request, MnS Producer modify the intent instance
with received intent information which is required to be modified.
3\. MnS Producer sends a response (see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined
in TS 28.532 [3]) to the MnS consumer with the attribute \'objectInstance\' of
the modified intent instance and the intent information which is modified.
4\. Based on the received request, MnS Producer performs the feasibility check
of the modified intent instance. Whether to perform the feasibility check can
be determined according to the feasibility check enabling policy.
In case the feasibility check result is \'feasible\', following step 5a-step8
is performed:
5a. MnS Producer derives one or more executable management tasks for these
managed entities, then MnS producer deploys or configures corresponding
managed entities to satisfy the modified intent instance.
6\. During the execution of the intent, MnS producer continuously tracks
intent fulfilment information.
7\. MnS producer analyses and adjusts the managed entities to ensure the
intent is continuously satisfied.
8\. MnS Producer should notify (see notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges
notification defined in TS 28.532 [3]) MnS Consumer about attribute
\"objectInstance\" of the modified intent instance and the intent fulfilment
information for the modified intent instance.
In case the feasibility check result is \'infeasible\', following step 5b is
executed:
5b. MnS Producer notifies MnS consumer about infeasible information for the
modified intent instance. The reasons why the feasibility check result is
infeasible (e.g. invalid intent expression, the intent conflict) and
corresponding recommendations also can be included in the notification
### 6.3.4 Delete an intent
Figure 6.3.4-1 illustrates the procedure for deleting an existing intent.
Figure 6.3.4-1: Procedure for delete an intent
1\. MnS Consumer sends a request to delete an intent instance (see deleteMOI
operation defined in TS 28.532[3]) to MnS Producer with \'objectInstance\' of
the intent MOI.
2\. Based on the request, MnS Producer deletes the intent MOI.
3\. MnS Producer sends response (see deleteMOI operation defined in TS 28.532
[3]) to the MnS consumer with status (OperationSucceeded or OperationFailed)
and \'objectInstance\' of the deleted intent MOI.
### 6.3.5 Query an intent
Figure 6.3.5-1 illustrates the procedure for query an intent.
Figure 6.3.5-1: Procedure for query an intent
1\. MnS Consumer sends a request to query an intent instance (see
getMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532[3]) to MnS Producer with
\'objectInstance\' of the existing intent MOI and list of attribute names of
intent IOC. The list of attribute names identifies the attributes to be
returned by this operation.
2\. Based on the request, the MnS Producer queries the concrete intent MOI.
3\. MnS Producer sends a response (see getMOIAttributes operation defined in
TS 28.532[3]) to the MnS consumer with \'objectClass\', \'objectInstance\',
and list of [Attribute,Value] which is defined in clause 6.2.
# 7 Stage 3 definition for Intent Driven Management
## 7.1 RESTful HTTP-based solution set
he RESTful HTTP-based solution set for generic provisioning management service
is defined in clause 12.1.1 in 3GPP TS 28.532 [3]. Corresponding className is
Intent.
## 7.2 OpenAPI specification
### 7.2.1 OpenAPI document \"TS28532_ProvMnS.yaml\"
OpenAPI definition of the provisioning MnS which includes the provisioning MnS
operations and the provisioning MnS notifications see clause A.1.1 in 3GPP TS
28.532 [3].
### 7.2.2 OpenAPI document \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml\"
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
title: Intent NRM
version: 17.5.0
description: >-
OAS 3.0.1 definition of the Intent NRM
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 28.312; Intent driven management services for mobile
networks
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/28_series/28.312/
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#-------Definition of generic IOCs ----------#
SubNetwork-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
\$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Attr\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
SubNetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Multiple\'
Intent:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Intent-Multiple\'
Intent-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
userLabel:
type: string
intentExpectations:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/IntentExpectation\"
\- \$ref:
\"TS28312_IntentExpectations.yaml#/components/schemas/RadioNetworkExpectation\"
\- \$ref:
\"TS28312_IntentExpectations.yaml#/components/schemas/EdgeServiceSupportExpectation\"
intentContexts:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/IntentContext\"
intentFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
#-------Definition of generic IOCs ----------#
#-------Definition of the generic IntentExpectation dataType \----------#
IntentExpectation:
description: >-
This data type is the \"IntentExpectation\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
expectationId:
type: string
expectationVerb:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ExpectationVerb\"
expectationObject:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ExpectationObject\"
expectationTargets:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ExpectationTarget\"
expectationContexts:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ExpectationContext\"
expectationfulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
required:
\- expectationId
#-------Definition of the generic IntentExpectation dataType \----------#
#-------Definition of the generic ExpectationObject dataType \----------#
ExpectationObject:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationObject\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
objectType:
type: string
enum:
\- RAN_SubNetwork #value for Radio Network Expectation--#
\- EdgeService_Support #value for Service Support Expectation--#
objectInstance:
\$ref: \"TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\"
objectContexts:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ObjectContext\"
#-------Definition of the generic ExpectationObject dataType \----------#
#-------Definition of the generic dataType \--------------#
Condition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
\- IS_LESS_THAN
\- IS_GREATER_THAN
\- IS_WITHIN_RANGE
\- IS_OUTSIDE_RANGE
\- IS_ONE_OF
\- IS_NOT_ONE_OF
\- IS_EQUAL_TO_OR_LESS_THAN
\- IS_EQUAL_TO_OR_GREATER_THAN
\- IS_ALL_OF
FulfilStatus:
type: string
readOnly: true
enum:
\- FULFILLED
\- NOT_FULFILLED
NotFulfilledState:
type: string
readOnly: true
enum:
\- ACKNOWLEDGED
\- COMPLIANT
\- DEGRADED
\- SUSPENDED
\- TERMINATED
\- FULFILMENTFAILED
FulfilmentInfo:
type: object
properties:
fulfilStatus:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/FulfilStatus\"
notFullfilledState:
description: ->
An attribute which is used when FulfilmentInfo is implemented for
IntentFulfilmentInfo
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/NotFulfilledState\"
notFulfilledReasons:
description: ->
An attribute which is used when FulfilmentInfo is implemented for
IntentFulfilmentInfo
type: string
readOnly: true
ExpectationVerb:
type: string
enum:
\- DELIVER
\- ENSURE
#-------Definition of the generic dataType \--------------#
#-------Definition of the generic IntentContext dataType \--------------#
IntentContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"IntentContext\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
contextCondition:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/Condition\"
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: number
#-------Definition of the generic IntentContext dataType \--------------#
#-------Definition of the generic ExpectationTarget dataType----------#
ExpectationTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
targetCondition:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/Condition\"
targetValueRange:
type: number
targetContexts:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/TargetContext\"
TargetContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"TargetContext\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
contextCondition:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/Condition\"
contextValueRange:
type: number
#-------Definition of the generic ExpectationTarget dataType----------#
#-------Definition of the generic ObjectContext dataType----------------#
ObjectContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
contextCondition:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/Condition\"
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: number
#-------Definition of the generic ObjectContext dataType----------------#
#-------Definition of the generic ExpectionContext dataType----------------#
ExpectationContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationContext\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
contextCondition:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/Condition\"
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: number
#-------Definition of the concrete ExpectationContext
dataType----------------#
#------Definition of JSON arrays for name-contained IOCs \---------------#
SubNetwork-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
Intent-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Intent-Single\'
#------Definition of JSON arrays for name-contained IOCs \---------------#
#----- Definitions in TS 28.312 for TS 28.532 \--------------------------#
resources-intentNrm:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/Intent-Single\'
#----- Definitions in TS 28.312 for TS 28.532 \--------------------------#
### 7.2.3 OpenAPI document \"TS28312_IntentExpectations.yaml\"
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
title: Scenario specific Intent Expectations
version: 17.5.0
description: >-
OAS 3.0.1 definition of scenario specific Intent Expectations
© 2023, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 28.312; Intent driven management services for mobile
networks
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/28_series/28.312/
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#-------Definition of the Scenario specific IntentExpectation dataType
----------#
RadioNetworkExpectation:
description: >-
This data type is the \"IntentExpectation\" data type with specialisations to
represent MnS consumer\'s expectations for radio network delivering and
performance assurance
type: object
properties:
expectationId:
type: string
expectationVerb:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationVerb\"
expectationObject:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/RadioNetworkExpectationObject\"
expectationTargets:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/WeakRSRPRatioTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowSINRRatioTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/AveULRANUEThptTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/AveDLRANUEThptTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowULRANUEThptRatioTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowDLRANUEThptRatioTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationTarget\"
expectationContexts:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationContext\"
expectationfulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
required:
\- expectationId
EdgeServiceSupportExpectation:
description: >-
This data type is the \"IntentExpectation\" data type with specialisations to
represent MnS consumer\'s expectations for service deployment
type: object
properties:
expectationId:
type: string
expectationVerb:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationVerb\"
expectationObject:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/EdgeServiceSupportExpectationObject\"
expectationTargets:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/DLThptPerUETarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ULThptPerUETarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/DLLatencyTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ULLatencyTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/MaxNumberofUEsTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ActivityFactorTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/UESpeedTarget\"
\- \$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationTarget\"
expectationContexts:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ServiceStartTimeContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ServiceEndTimeContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/UEMobilityLevelContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/ResourceSharingLevelContext\"
\- \$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ExpectationContext\"
expectationfulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
required:
\- expectationId
#-------Definition of the IntentExpectation dataType \----------#
#-------Definition of the scenario specific ExpectationObject dataType
----------#
RadioNetworkExpectationObject:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationObject\" data type with specialisations for
RadioNetworkExpectation
type: object
properties:
objectType:
type: string
enum:
\- RAN_SubNetwork
objectInstance:
\$ref: \"TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\"
objectContexts:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/CoverageAreaPolygonContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/CoverageTACContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/PLMNContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/NRFqBandContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/RATContext\"
\- \$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ObjectContext\"
EdgeServiceSupportExpectationObject:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationObject\" data type with specialisations for
EdgeServiceSupportExpectation
type: object
properties:
objectType:
type: string
enum:
\- Service_Support
objectInstance:
\$ref: \"TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\"
objectContexts:
type: array
items:
type: object
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/EdgeIdentificationIdContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/EdgeIdentificationLocContext\"
\- \$ref: \"#/components/schemas/CoverageAreaTAContext\"
\- \$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ObjectContext\"
#-------Definition of the ExpectationObject dataType \----------#
#-------Definition of the Scenario specific ExpectationTarget
dataType----------#
WeakRSRPRatioTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
WeakRSRPRatioTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- WeakRSRPRatio
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 100
targetContexts:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/WeakRSRPContext\"
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
WeakRSRPContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"TargetContext\" data type with specialisations for
WeakRSRPContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- WeakRSRPThreshold
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
contextValueRange:
type: number
LowSINRRatioTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
LowSINRatioTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- LowSINRRatio
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 100
targetContexts:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowSINRContext\"
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
LowSINRContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"TargetContext\" data type with specialisations for
LowSINRContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- LowSINRThreshold
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
contextValueRange:
type: integer
AveULRANUEThptTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
AveULRANUEThptTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- AveULRANUEThpt
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_GREATER_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
AveDLRANUEThptTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
AveDLRANUEThptTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- AveDLRANUEThpt
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_GREATER_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
LowULRANUEThptRatioTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
LowULRANUEThptRatioTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- LowULRANUEThptRatio
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 100
targetContexts:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowULRANUEThptContext\"
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
LowULRANUEThptContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"TargetContext\" data type with specialisations for
LowULRANUEThptContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- LowULRANUEThptThreshold
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- Is_less_than
contextValueRange:
type: number
LowDLRANUEThptRatioTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
LowDLRANUEThptRatioTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- LowDLRANUEThptRatio
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
minimum: 0
maximum: 100
targetContexts:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/LowDLRANUEThptContext\"
targetFulfilmentInfo:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/FulfilmentInfo\"
LowDLRANUEThptContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"TargetContext\" data type with specialisations for
LowDLRANUEThptContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- LowDLRANUEThptThreshold
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
contextValueRange:
type: number
DLThptPerUETarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
DLThptPerUETarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- DlThptPerUE
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_GREATER_THAN
targetValueRange:
\$ref: \"TS28541_SliceNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/XLThpt\"
ULThptPerUETarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
ULThptPerUETarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- UlThptPerUE
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_GREATER_THAN
targetValueRange:
\$ref: \"TS28541_SliceNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/XLThpt\"
DLLatencyTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
DLLatencyTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- DlLatency
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
ULLatencyTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
ULLatencyTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- UlLatency
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
MaxNumberofUEsTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
MaxNumberofUEsTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- maxNumberofUEs
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
ActivityFactorTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
ActivityFactorTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- activityFactor
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
targetValueRange:
type: integer
UESpeedTarget:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationTarget\" data type with specialisations for
UESpeedTarget
type: object
properties:
targetName:
type: string
enum:
\- uESpeed
targetCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_LESS_THAN
targetValueRange:
type: integer
#-------Definition of the concrete ExpectationTarget dataType----------#
#-------Definition of the concrete ObjectTarget dataType----------------#
ObjectContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type without specialisations
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
contextCondition:
\$ref: \"TS28312_IntentNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Condition\"
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: number
CoverageAreaPolygonContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
CoverageAreaPolygonContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- CoverageAreaPolygon
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/CoverageArea\"
CoverageArea:
type: string
CoverageTACContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
CoverageTACContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- CoverageAreaTac
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"TS28541_NrNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/NrTac\"
PLMNContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
PLMNContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- PLMN
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/PlmnId\"
NRFqBandContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
NRFqBandContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- NRFqBand
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: string
RATContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
RATContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- RAT
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: string
enum:
\- UTRAN
\- EUTRAN
\- NR
EdgeIdentificationIdContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
EdgeIdentificationIdContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- edgeIdentificationId
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: string
EdgeIdentificationLocContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
EdgeIdentificationLocContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- edgeIdentificationTarget
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
type: string
CoverageAreaTAContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ObjectContext\" data type with specialisations for
CoverageAreaTAContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- coverageAreaTA
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_ALL_OF
contextValueRange:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \"#/components/schemas/CoverageAreaTAList\"
CoverageAreaTAList:
type: integer
#-------Definition of the scenario specific ObjectTarget
dataType----------------#
#-------Definition of the concrete ExpectationContext
dataType----------------#
ServiceStartTimeContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationContext\" data type with specialisations
for ServiceStartTimeContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- ServiceStartTime
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
ServiceEndTimeContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationContext\" data type with specialisations
for ServiceEndTimeContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- ServiceEndTime
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/DateTime\'
UEMobilityLevelContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationContext\" data type with specialisations
for UEMobilityLevelContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- UEMobilityLevel
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
\$ref: \"TS28541_SliceNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/MobilityLevel\"
ResourceSharingLevelContext:
description: >-
This data type is the \"ExpectationContext\" data type with specialisations
for ResourceSharingLevelContext
type: object
properties:
contextAttribute:
type: string
enum:
\- ResourceSharingLevel
contextCondition:
type: string
enum:
\- IS_EQUAL_TO
contextValueRange:
\$ref: \"TS28541_SliceNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SharingLevel\"
#-------Definition of the concrete ExpectionContext dataType----------------#
# 8 Guidelines for using scenario specific intent expectation for intent
driven use cases
This clause describes guidelines for using scenario specific intent
expectation defined in clause 6.2.2 to satisfy the intent driven use cases
defined in clause 5.1. Following table provide the information which
ObjectContexts and ExpectationTargets defined in clause 6.2.2 are used for
corresponding use case.
Table 8-1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Use case | Scenario | Expe | Exp | | | specific | ctationObject. | ectationTarget | | | Int | | | | | entExpectation | ObjectContext | | +================+================+================+================+ | Intent | Radio Network | -coverageArea | -weakR | | containing an | Expectation | PolygonContext | SRPRatioTarget | | expectation | | | | | for delivering | | - | - | | radio network | | cove | lowS | | (clause 5.1.1) | | rageTACContext | INRRatioTarget | | | | | | | | | - pLMNContext | - | | | | | aveULR | | | | - | ANUEThptTarget | | | | n | | | | | RFqBandContext | - | | | | | aveDLR | | | | - rATContext | ANUEthptTarget | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Intent | Edge Service | - | - | | containing an | Support | edgeIdenfitic | dlT | | expectation | Expectation | ationIdContext | hptPerUETarget | | for delivering | | | | | a service at | | - | - | | the edge | | edgeIdenfitica | UlT | | (clause 5.1.3) | | tionLocContext | hptPerUETarget | | | | | | | | | - | - | | | | coverag | d | | | | eAreaTAContext | LLatencyTarget | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | u | | | | | LLatencyTarget | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | maxNum | | | | | berofUEsTarget | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | activi | | | | | tyFactorTarget | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | uESpeedTarget | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Intent | Radio Network | -coverageArea | -weakR | | containing an | Expectation | PolygonContext | SRPRatioTarget | | expectation on | | | | | coverage | | - | -lowS | | performance to | | n | INRRatioTarget | | be assured | | RFqBandContext | | | (clause 5.1.4) | | | | | | | - rATContext | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Intent | Radio Network | -coverageArea | -aveULR | | containing an | Expectation | PolygonContext | ANUEThptTarget | | expectation on | | | | | RAN UE | | - | -aveDLR | | throughput | | n | ANUEthptTarget | | performance to | | RFqBandContext | | | be assured | | | -lowULRANUET | | (clause 5.1.5) | | - rATContext | hptRatioTarget | | | | | | | | | | -lowDLRANUET | | | | | hptRatioTarget | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): PlantUML source code
# A.1 Procedures for intent management
## A.1.1 Create an intent
\@startuml
title \"[Create an intent]\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as MnS_Consumer
participant \"MnS Producer\" as MnS_Producer
Collections \"ManagedEntity\" as ManagedEntity
MnS_Consumer -> MnS_Producer: 1. Request to create an intent instance (list of
attributes of intent IOC)
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 2. Create and configure intent MOI
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 3. Response for create an intent instance
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 4. Perform the feasibility check of the intent
instance
alt feasibility check result is \"Feasible\"
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 5a. Perform service or network
management tasks
loop
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 6. Evaluate intent fulfilment
opt
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 7. Adjust to fulfil the intent
requirement
end
end
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer:8. Notify of intent fulfillment Information\n (DN
of intent MOI, FulfilmentInfo)
else feasibility check result is \"inFeasible\"
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 5b. Notify of intent infeasibile information
end
hide footbox
\@enduml
## A.1.2 Modify an intent
\@startuml
title \"[Create an intent]\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as MnS_Consumer
participant \"MnS Producer\" as MnS_Producer
Collections \"ManagedEntity\" as ManagedEntity
MnS_Consumer -> MnS_Producer: 1. Request to create an intent instance (list of
attributes of intent IOC)
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 2. Create and configure intent MOI
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 3. Response for create an intent instance
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 4. Perform the feasibility check of the intent
instance
alt feasibility check result is \"Feasible\"
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 5a. Perform service or network
management tasks
loop
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 6. Evaluate intent fulfilment
opt
Ref over MnS_Producer, ManagedEntity: 7. Adjust to fulfil the intent
requirement
end
end
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer:8. Notify of intent fulfillment Information\n (DN
of intent MOI, FulfilmentInfo)
else feasibility check result is \"inFeasible\"
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 5b. Notify of intent infeasibile information for
\n the created intent instance
end
## A.1.3 Delete an intent
\@startuml
title \"[Delete an intent]\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as MnS_Consumer
participant \"MnS Producer\" as MnS_Producer
MnS_Consumer -> MnS_Producer: 1.Requst to delete an intent
instance\n(\'objectInstance\' of intent MOI)
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 2.Delete the intent MOI
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 3.Response for delete an intent instance\n
(\'objectInstance\' of intent MOI)
hide footbox
\@enduml
## A.1.4 Query an intent
\@startuml
title \"[Query an intent]\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as MnS_Consumer
participant \"MnS Producer\" as MnS_Producer
MnS_Consumer -> MnS_Producer: 1.Request to query an intent
instance(objectInstance,AttributeList of Intent IOC )
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Producer: 2.Query the intent MOI
MnS_Producer -> MnS_Consumer: 3.Response for query an intent instance \n
(objectClass,objectInstance,status,list of [Attribute,value] of Intent IOC )
hide footbox
\@enduml
# A.2 Information model definition for intent
## A.2.1 Relationship UML diagram for intent (figure 6.2.1.1.2-1)
\@startuml
hide circle
hide methods
hide members
skinparam class {
AttributeIconSize 0
BackgroundColor white
BorderColor black
ArrowColor black
}
skinparam Shadowing false
skinparam Monochrome true
skinparam ClassBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
class \"\> \n ManagedEntity \" as ManagedEntity{}
class \"\>\n Intent \" as Intent {}
class \"\>\n IntentExpectation\" as IntentExpectation{}
class \"\>\n IntentContext\" as IntentContext{}
class \"\>\n ExpectationObject\" as ExpectationObject{}
class \"\>\n ObjectContext\" as ObjectContext{}
class \"\>\n ExpectationTarget\" as ExpectationTarget{}
class \"\>\n TargetContext\" as TargetContext{}
class \"\>\n ExpectationContext\" as ExpectationContext{}
ManagedEntity \"1\" *-- \"*\" Intent : \>
Intent \"1\" -- \"1..*\" IntentExpectation
Intent \"1\" -- \"*\" IntentContext
IntentExpectation \"1\" -- \"1..*\" ExpectationTarget
IntentExpectation \"1\" -- \"1\" ExpectationObject
IntentExpectation \"1\" -- \"*\" ExpectationContext
ExpectationObject \"1\" -- \"*\" ObjectContext
ExpectationTarget \"1\" -- \"*\" TargetContext
note left of ManagedEntity
Represents the folllowing IOCs:
Subnetwork
end note
\@enduml
###### ## Annex B (informative): Intent Life Cycle Management
# B.1 Intent Life Cycle Management
As the MnS producer\'s (i.e. 3gpp system) capabilities (e.g. number and/or
availability of the system resources) can change even after the Intent is
accepted by the MnS producer, the Intent content (i.e. a list of Intent
Expectations) might not be best aligned with the MnS producer\'
capabilities**.** For example, the resources in MnS producer are overbooked,
and the intent content is failing to meet expectations of the MnS consumer or
the resources of the MnS producer become underbooked which makes such a
solution very expensive and therefore useless. Hence the creation/adjustment
of an Intent content (i.e. a list of Intent Expectations) and keeping it
aligned with the MnS producer\'s capabilities, can be automated.
This means that the life cycle of the Intent can begin before Intent content
is retrieved by the MnS producer, e.g. the Intent content is being defined in
a MnS consumer based on requirements towards a MnS producer (e.g. to deliver a
service with certain characteristics), then be optimized based on the MnS
producer\'s capabilities (e.g. availability of MnS Producer resources in
certain area, time, etc.), then be refined if the initially captured
requirement needs further detalization, etc.
The intent lifecycle consists of the following phases.
{width="2.6013888888888888in" height="2.6131944444444444in"}
Figure B.1-1: Intent Lifecycle Phases
**Detection:**
In the detection phase, the MnS Consumer as the system generating the intent
content (a list of expectations), identifies if there is a need to define new
or change/remove existing intent expectations to set requirements, goals, and
constraints. The MnS Consumer has its own terminal expectations to fulfill. It
would break its terminal expectations down into a suitable set of detailed
instrumental expectations. Typically, these instrumental expectations need to
be fulfilled by other management functions and domains and therefore they need
to be not only defined but distributed to suitable MnS producer. In the
detection phase, the MnS consumer can react to changes in its own terminal
expectations or to changes in the fulfillment in its instrumental
expectations. In this respect the MnS consumer deriving the expectations will
need to collect information about the expectation\' fulfillment. Intent
reports coming from MnS producer, as a system to receive intent expectations
are one source for this information. Through intent reports the MnS Consumer
is able to react on intent handling outcomes in the MnS producer. In any case
it is task of the MnS consumer to assure the fulfillment of its terminal
expectations and the first step is to detect if any changes are needed in its
instrumental expectations.
**Investigation:**
In the investigation phase, the MnS Consumer finds out what intent content (a
list of expectations) are feasible. This has two aspects: first, it needs to
find right MnS producer that have the right domain responsibilities and
support the intent expectations the MnS consumer wants to define. MnS producer
capability management and detection would be used for this process.
The other aspect of investigation would be finding out if the wanted intent
expectations are realistic. This means, if the MnS producer would be able to
successfully reach the wanted expectations. This depends on the current
resource situation and capabilities of the system and can vary over time.
Typically, the feasibility of intent expectations is done through a guided
negotiation process between the MnS Producer and MnS Consumer. The MnS
Consumer can explore what the handling result of wanted intent expectations
would be, what would be the best result the MnS producer can achieve, or what
would be the most challenging requirements, the aspiring MnS producer can
offer to fulfill.
**Definition:**
At the end of the investigation phase the MnS consumer knows what is possible
and what the MnS producer to be involved. By combining this information with
the needs that were identified in detection, the MnS Consumer can now decide
and plan all needed intent expectations. In the definition phase the MnS
consumer formulates the intent expectations it needs to use.
**Distribution:**
In the distribution phase the MnS Consumer contacts a MnS producer in order to
create a new intent object or modify or change an existing one to include the
intent expectations derived in the Definition phase. This way the MnS consumer
acts on the plan it has made in definition phase. In this phase a MnS producer
starts handling the intent expectations by receiving them and included in the
intent object. The MnS producer decides if it can accept the intent
expectations. If not, it would send a report with the rejection reason back to
the MnS consumer. While this finishes the lifecycle of this particular intent,
the MnS consumer can start over with detection to create a new plan. If the
MnS producer accepts the intent, it starts operating based on it.
**Operation:**
Each intent expectations yet another set of requirements, goals and
constraints to be considered for decisions and actions by the MnS producers.
The MnS producers operate their domains of responsibility according to the
given intent expectations. They also report back to the MnS consumer about
status and success while continuously reacting to intent fulfillment threats.
Intent reports would be evaluated by the MnS consumer as part of its detection
process, which leads to the next iteration of the intent life cycle.
###### ## Annex C(informative): Mapping the 3GPP and the TM Forum
intentExpectation Models
The TM forum defines the structure of an intent as a list of expectations with
each expectation containing the requirements goals and constraints to be
achieved. The expectation is defined to contain 3 attributes - the icm:target,
icm:propertyParams and the icm:deliveryParams.
Table C.1 illustrates the mapping between 3GPP Intent Expectation and TM Forum
ICM IntentExpectation.
Table C.1. Mapping between 3GPP Intent Expectation and TM Forum ICM
IntentExpectation
3GPP Intent Expectation TM Forum Intent Expectation (IG1253A v1.1.0 [7])
* * *
Attribute Attribute expectationObject.ObjectInstance icm:target
expectation**Targets** icm:propertyParams expectationContexts  
expectationObject.objectType icm:deliveryParams
expectationObject.ObjectContexts
#