# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Management and orchestration; as identified below:
TS 28.314: \"Plug and Connect; Concepts and requirements\".
**TS 28.315: \"Plug and Connect; Procedure flows\".**
TS 28.316: \"Plug and Connect; Data formats\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies procedure flows for _Plug and Connect_ NE in
3GPP systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.314: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect; Concepts
and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.316: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect; Data
formats\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1], TS 28.314 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and TS 28.314 [2].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], TS 28.314 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 28.314 [2].
# 4 Architecture for Plug and Connect
## 4.1 Functional architecture
The functional architecture for plug-and-connect connection of NE to the
network is described in 3GPP TS 28.314 [2] clause 4.1.2. It covers the
scenarios where NE is connected to the Secure Operator Network either via an
External Network or via a Non-Secure Operator Network.\ The entities
(functional elements) involved in the PnC are listed and described in detail
in clause 4.2.
## 4.2 Functional elements
### 4.2.1 IP Autoconfiguration services
The IP Autoconfiguration services such as DHCP servers and Router
Advertisements are used primarily to provide the NE with basic IP
configuration information (e.g. IP address, netmask, default gateway, domain
name, IP address(es) of DNS servers, time servers). IP Autoconfiguration
services may recognize the NE as a client (using, for example, the vendor
class identifier DHCP option) and provide with information such as IP address
or FQDN of CA/RA server, IP address or FQDN of SeGW, IP address or FQDN of
SCS, etc.\ The specific data formats used by IP Autoconfiguration services for
**plug-and-connect** procedures are described in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
From the **plug-and-connect** feature perspective, the IP Autoconfiguration
services may be categorized into secure (those located within a Secure
Operator Network) and public (those located either within a Non-Secure
Operator Network or within an External Network).
### 4.2.2 DNS server
DNS servers are used to resolve FQDNs into IP addresses. The FQDNs used for
**plug-and-connect** may be factory programmed, provided by IP
Autoconfiguration services, configured by SCS, or derived/generated within the
NE using the vendor information, operator network domain name and name of the
functional element.\ The specific FQDN formats used in **plug-and-connect**
procedures are described in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
From the **plug-and-connect** feature perspective, the DNS servers may be
categorized into secure (those located within a Secure Operator Network) and
public (those located either within a\ Non-Secure Operator Network or within
an External Network).
The DNS server is an optional functional element and is only required if
particular Operator deployment scenario relies on resolution of FQDNs (e.g.
FQDNs are configured at the IP Autoconfiguration services, NE and/or SCS,
while IP addresses are configured at DNS servers).
### 4.2.3 Certification Authority server
The Certification Authority server (CA/RA) is used in the in the **plug-and-
connect** procedures for security certificate enrolment (e.g. to provision
operator certificates at the NE using the factory-installed vendor
certificates).
There could be one or more CA/RA depending on a particular operator deployment
scenario (e.g. one CA/RA per vendor).
### 4.2.4 Software and Configuration Server (SCS)
The SCS is a vendor-specific functional element that is used in **plug-and-
connect** procedures to provide the NE with correct software and configuration
information.
There could be one or more SCS depending on a particular Operator deployment
scenario (e.g. initial SCS, serving SCS).
The configuration may contain an IP address or FQDN of (another) SCS that this
specific NE shall use as SCS.
The configuration may contain an IP address or FQDN of (another) SeGW that
should be used before connecting to the SCS.
SCS can be implemented in EM in IRP based architecture or MnF in SBMA.
### 4.2.5 Security Gateway (SeGW)
The SeGW is used to establish a secure connection between the NE and the
Secure Operator Network.
Depending on a particular operator deployment scenario, there could be
separate SeGW for connection to the OAM network and to the CN. The OAM SeGW
and CN SeGW may or may not be in practice separate physical entities.
Depending on a particular operator deployment scenario, there could be more
than one OAM SeGW (e.g. one per vendor).
# 5 Procedure flows
## 5.1 High-level plug-and-connect
The high level procedure for \"plug-and-connect\" is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.1.1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways. The
following options are possible:
\- One or multiple SCS for each vendor (e.g. an Initial SCS and zero or more
Serving SCS);
\- One or more SeGW (e.g. one SeGW for OAM and one or more for each CN, and/or
one SeGW per vendor);
\- Zero or more IP Autoconfiguration services in the Secure Operator Network;
\- Zero or more DNS servers in the Secure Operator Network;
\- One or more IP Autoconfiguration services in the External Network / non-
Secure Operator Network;
\- Zero or more DNS servers in the External Network / non-Secure Operator
Network;
\- One or more CA/RA (e.g. one per vendor).
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above. In this procedure NE is the RAN NE. Other types of NE might also
be compliant and use this procedure. Examples of NEs are:
\- gNB
\- eNB
The NE within virtualization is not addressed.
The procedure begins when the NE is powered up and ends when all mandatory
steps in this procedure are completed or when an exception occurs.
**The pre-conditions for this procedure are:**
\- The NE is physically installed;
\- IP connectivity exists between involved telecom resources (functional
elements listed in clause 4.2);
\- The involved telecom resources (functional elements listed in clause 4.2)
are functional;
\- The relevant information is stored and available.
**The post-conditions for this procedure are:**
\- One or more secure connection exists between NE and SCS and the Core
Network(s);
\- Via the connection to the SCS the NE can receive further instructions to
become operational and carry user traffic (e.g. the administrativeState is set
to \"unlocked\").
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) If a VLAN ID is available the NE uses it. Otherwise the NE uses the native
VLAN where PnC traffic is sent and received untagged.
2) In this step NE invokes the \"Initial IP Autoconfiguration\" procedure
(described in clause 5.2) and acquires its IP address through stateful or
stateless IP Autoconfiguration. There may be additional information provided
to the NE.
3) In this step NE invokes the \"Certificate Enrolment\" procedure (described
in clause 5.3).
4) In this step NE invokes the \"Establishing Secure Connection\" procedure
(described in clause 5.4) and connects to the OAM SeGW.
5) In this step NE invokes the \"Establishing Connection to SCS\" procedure
(described in clause 5.5). In this step SCS may provide the NE with new
configuration. The configuration may contain an address to another SCS that
this specific node shall use as SCS. The configuration may contain an address
to another SeGW that should be used before connecting to the SCS.
6) If the configuration obtained in step 5 contains the address or FQDN of the
SeGW and/or SCS different from the one that NE is currently connected to, the
NE may execute steps 6.1 and 6.2 until the configured SeGW and SCS will match
the connected SeGW and SCS. The configuration may also contain OAM VLAN Id to
be used from this step onwards.
> 6.1) In this step, if the NE is connected to the OAM SeGW different from the
> SeGW that is configured, it releases the connection to the current SeGW and
> invokes the \"Establish Secure Connection\" procedure (described in clause
> 5.4) and connects to the configured SeGW.
>
> 6.2) In this step, if the NE is connected to the SCS different from the SCS
> that is configured, it releases the connection to the current SCS and
> invokes the \"Establish Connection to SCS\" procedure (described in clause
> 5.5) and connects to the configured SCS.
Figure 5.1.1: High-level plug-and-connect flow
## 5.2 Initial IP Autoconfiguration
The procedure for initial IP Autoconfiguration is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.2.1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration only
(e.g. IP address, netmask, gateway, domain name, DNS server address);
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP address of CA/RA, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3]
clause 4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDN of CA/RA, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause
4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP addresses of CA/RA and SeGW, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS
28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDNs of CA/RA and SeGW, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316
[3] clause 4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the IP addresses of CA/RA, SeGW and SCS, and other CA/RA attributes defined in
TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is configured with basic IP configuration and
the FQDNs of CA/RA, SeGW and SCS, and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS
28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is unable to recognize that the client is an
NE performing\ the **plug-and-connect** procedure;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is able to recognize that the client is an NE
performing\ the **plug-and-connect** procedure;
\- IP Autoconfiguration service is unable to recognize that the client is an
NE performing\ the **plug-and-connect** procedure and the specific NE vendor.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1.1) In this step NE sends a request for IP address configuration to the IP
Autoconfiguration service (e.g. DHCP server). The NE may include the vendor
specific identifier. The data format used by the NE in this step is specified
in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
1.2) Depending on the particular operator deployment scenario, the information
configured in the IP Autoconfiguration service may be different and the IP
Autoconfiguration service may or may not be able to recognize the specific
details about the client (whether it is an NE performing **plug-and-connect**
procedure and the specific NE vendor). Therefore, in this step the following
replies by the IP Autoconfiguration service are possible:
1.2.a) Client IP configuration only (e.g. IP address, netmask, gateway, domain
name, DNS server address);
1.2.b) Client IP configuration and the IP address of CA/RA, and other CA/RA
attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
1.2.c) Client IP configuration and the FQDN of CA/RA, and other CA/RA
attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
1.2.d) Client IP configuration and the IP addresses of CA/RA and SeGW, and
other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
1.2.e) Client IP configuration and the FQDNs of CA/RA and SeGW, and other
CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
1.2.f) Client IP configuration and the IP addresses of CA/RA, SeGW and SCS,
and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3;
1.2.g) Client IP configuration and the FQDNs of CA/RA, SeGW and SCS, and other
CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3] clause 4.2.3.
Figure 5.2.1: Initial IP Autoconfiguration flow
## 5.3 Certificate enrolment
The procedure for certificate enrolment is described next and illustrated in
figure 5.3.1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways. The
following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the CA/RA is known to the NE (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service);
\- The IP address of the CA/RA is unknown to the NE, but the FQDN of the CA/RA
is known to the NE (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service, pre-
configured at the factory);
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of CA/RA is unknown to the NE,
but the FQDN of the CA/RA is known (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration
service, pre-configured at the factory). The format of the FQDN is specified
in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3]:
1.1) NE sends a request containing the FQDN of the CA/RA to the DNS server.
1.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the CA/RA into the IP address and
provides it to the NE.
2) In this step NE performs actual security certificate enrolment (e.g. using
CMPv2 protocol). The sub-steps are included for the illustration purposes
only:
2.1) In this sub-step the NE enrols using the vendor certificate (e.g. pre-
programmed at the factory) and other CA/RA attributes defined in TS 28.316 [3]
clause 4.2.3 provided by IP Autoconfiguration service.
2.2) In this sub-step the NE receives the Operator certificates from the
CA/RA.
Figure 5.3.1: Certificate enrolment flow
## 5.4 Establishing secure connection
The procedure for establishing the secure connection is described next and
illustrated in figure 5.4.1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the SeGW is known to the NE (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service, configured by SCS);
\- The IP address of the SeGW is unknown to the NE, but the FQDN of the SeGW
is known to the NE\ (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service,
configured by SCS, pre-configured at the factory);
\- The SeGW provides NE only with internal IP configuration;
\- The SeGW provides NE with internal IP configuration and the IP address of
the secure (internal) DHCP server;
\- The SeGW provides NE with internal IP configuration and the IP address(es)
of the secure (internal) DNS server(s);
\- The SeGW provides NE with internal IP configuration and the IP addresses of
the secure (internal) DHCP and DNS servers.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of SeGW is unknown to the NE,
but the FQDN of the SeGW is known (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration
service, configured by SCS, pre-configured at the factory).\ The format of the
FQDN is specified in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
1.1) NE sends a request containing the FQDN of the SeGW to the DNS server.
1.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the SeGW into the IP address and provides
it to the NE.
2) In this step NE establishes secure tunnel to the SeGW using IKEv2 protocol.
The sub-steps are included for the illustration purposes only.
2.1) In this sub-step the NE establishes secure connection using the operator
certificate (e.g. provided in the Certificate Enrolment procedure described in
clause 5.3).
2.2) In this sub-step the NE receives its inner IP configuration from the SeGW
in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2. The \"inner\" IP address may be the
same as the \"outer\" IP address (e.g. obtained in the Initial IP
Autoconfiguration procedure described in clause 5.2).
2.3) In this optional sub-step the NE receives the IP addresses of one or more
secure (internal) DNS servers from the SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of
IKEv2.
2.4) In this optional sub-step the NE receives the IP address of secure
(internal) DHCP server from the SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2.
Figure 5.4.1: Establishing secure connection flow
## 5.5 Establishing connection to Software and Configuration Server (SCS)
The procedure for establishing connection to Software and Configuration Server
(SCS) is described next and illustrated in figure 5.5.1.
Operators may deploy their management infrastructure in different ways.
Specifically, the following options are possible:
\- The IP address of the SCS is known to the NE (e.g. provided by the IP
Autoconfiguration service, configured by SCS);
\- The IP address of the SCS is unknown to the NE, but the FQDN of the SCS is
known to the NE (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration service, configured
by SCS, pre-configured at the factory);
\- The IP address of secure (internal) DHCP server is known to the NE (e.g.
provided in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2);
\- The IP address of secure (internal) DNS server is known to the NE (e.g.
provided in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2);
\- The IP address of the SCS configured in the secure (internal) DHCP server;
\- The FQDN of the SCS configured in the secure (internal) DHCP server.
The procedure described in this clause applies to all deployment options
listed above.
**The exceptions:**
\- One of the steps outlined in the procedure fails.
**Procedure steps:**
1) This step is executed only if the IP address of SCS is unknown to the NE,
but the IP address of the secure (internal) DHCP server is known (e.g.
provided by the SeGW in the Configuration Parameters of IKEv2):
1.1) NE sends a request to the secure DHCP server. The NE may include the
vendor specific identifier. The data format used by the NE in this step is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
1.2) DHCP server provides the IP address of the SCS to the NE. The data format
used by the DHCP server in this step is specified in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
2) This step is executed only if the IP address of SCS is unknown to the NE,
but the FQDN of the SCS is known (e.g. provided by the IP Autoconfiguration
service, configured by SCS, pre-configured at the factory) and the IP address
of the secure (internal) DNS server is known (e.g. provided by the SeGW in the
Configuration Parameters of IKEv2). The format of the FQDN is specified in
3GPP TS 28.316 [3]:
2.1) NE sends a request containing the FQDN of the SCS to the secure
(internal) DNS server.
2.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the SCS into the IP address and provides
it to the NE.
3) and 4) These steps are executed only if the IP address and FQDN of the SCS
are unknown to the NE, but the IP addresses of the secure (internal) DHCP and
DNS servers are known (e.g. provided by the SeGW in the Configuration
Parameters of IKEv2):
3.1) NE sends a request to the secure DHCP server. The NE may include the
vendor specific identifier. The data format used by the NE in this step is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
3.2) DHCP server provides the FQDN of the SCS to the NE. The data format used
by the DHCP server in this step is specified in 3GPP TS 28.316 [3].
4.1) NE sends a request containing the FQDN of the SCS to the secure
(internal) DNS server.
4.2) DNS server resolves the FQDN of the SCS into the IP address and provides
it to the NE.
5) In this step NE establishes communication with SCS. The protocol used for
communication between NE and SCS is vendor specific and is out of scope of the
present document. The sub-steps listed below are for illustration purposes
only:
5.1) In this step NE connects to the SCS and identifies itself. The NE may
provide SCS with its current software version and configuration.
5.2) In this step SCS may provide the NE with new configuration.
5.3) In this step SCS may provide the NE with new software.
Figure 5.5.1: Establishing connection to Software and Configuration Server
(SCS) flow
###### ## Annex A (informative): PlantUML source code
A.1 High-level plug-and-connect
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for High-
level plug-and-connect, as depicted by Figure 5.1.1:
\@startuml
actor NE
participant \"Public IP autoconfiguration server: \n IP autoconfiguration
server\" as IP_Server
participant \"public DNS server:\n DNS server\" as P_DNS_Server
participant \"CA/RA\" as CA_RA
participant SeGW
participant \"secure DNS server: \n DNS server\" as S_DNS_Server
participant \"secure DHCP server: \n DHCP server\" as S_DHCP_Server
participant SCS
alt VLAN ID is available
NE->NE: 1a.use available VLAN Id
Else [[else]]
NE->NE: 1b.use native VLAN Id
End
Ref over NE, IP_Server: 2. Initial IP Autoconfiguration
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA: 3. Certificate Enrolment
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA,SeGW: 4. Establishing Secure Connection
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA,SeGW,SCS: 5 Establishing Connection to SCS
loop [ [while ((configured SCS\<>connected SCS) or (configured OaM
SeGW\<>connected OaM SeGW))] ]
opt [ [configured OaM SeGW\<>connected OaM SeGW] ]
\|\|\|
Ref over NE,IP_Server,P_DNS_Server,CA_RA, SeGW:6.1 Establishing Secure
Connection
End
opt [ [configured SCS\<>connected SCS] ]
\|\|\|
Ref over NE,IP_Server,P_DNS_Server,CA_RA,
SeGW,S_DNS_Server,S_DHCP_Server,SCS:6.2 Establishing Connection to SCS
End
End
hide footbox
skinparam DefaultFontSize 11
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
A.2 Initial IP Autoconfiguration
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
Initial IP Autoconfiguration, as depicted by Figure 5.2.1:
\@startuml
actor NE
participant \"Public IP autoconfiguration server: \n IP autoconfiguration
server\" as IP_Server
NE -> IP_Server: 1.1 Request(vendor specific attributes)
activate NE
activate IP_Server
Alt [ [Client IP configuration only] ]
IP_Server --> NE: 1.2.a. Reply(Client IP info, Domain Info)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA IP address, other CA/RA attributes] ]
IP_Server --> NE: 1.2.b. Reply(Client IP info, Domain info, CA/RA IP, other
CA/RA attributes)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA FQDN, other CA/RA attributes] ]
IP_Server -->NE: 1.2.c. Reply(Client IP info, Domain Info, CA/RA FQDN, other
CA/RA attributes)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA IP address, other CA/RA attributes,
SeGW IP address] ]
IP_Server -->NE: 1.2.d. Reply(Client IP info, Domain info, CA/RA IP, other
CA/RA attributes, SeGW IP)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA FQDN, other CA/RA attributes, SeGW
FQDN] ]
IP_Server -->NE: 1.2.e. Reply(Client IP info, Domain info, CA/RA FQDN, other
CA/RA attributes, SeGW FQDN)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA IP address, other CA/RA attributes,
SeGW IP address, SCS IP address] ]
IP_Server --> NE: 1.2.f. Reply(Client IP info, Domain info, CA/RA IP, other
CA/RA attributes, SeGW IP, SCS IP)
\|\|\|
Else [ [Client IP configuration, CA/RA FQDN, other CA/RA attributes, SeGW
FQDN, SCS FQDN] ]
IP_Server -->NE: 1.2.g. Reply(Client IP info, Domain info, CA/RA FQDN, other
CA/RA attributes, SeGW FQDN, SCS FQDN)
\|\|\|
deactivate IP_Server
deactivate NE
End
hide footbox
skinparam defaultFontSize 11
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
A.3 Certificate enrolment
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
Certificate enrolment, as depicted by Figure 5.3.1:
\@startuml
actor NE
activate NE
participant \"public DNS server:\n DNS server\" as P_DNS_Server
participant \"CA/RA\" as CA_RA
opt [ [CA/RA Server IP address unavailable] ]
NE->P_DNS_Server: 1.1. ResolveIP(CA/RA FQDN)
activate P_DNS_Server
P_DNS_Server -->NE: 1.2. CA/RA IP address
deactivate P_DNS_Server
End
NE->CA_RA: 2.1 Enrol(vendor certificate)
activate CA_RA
CA_RA-->NE: 2.2 Operator Certificate
deactivate CA_RA
deactivate NE
hide footbox
skinparam defaultFontSize 11
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
A.4 Establishing secure connection
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
Establishing secure connection, as depicted by Figure 5.4.1:
\@startuml
actor NE
participant \"public DNS server:\n DNS server\" as P_DNS_Server
participant SeGW
activate NE
opt [ [SeGW IP address unavailable] ]
NE -> P_DNS_Server: 1.1. ResolveIP(SeGW FQDN)
activate P_DNS_Server
P_DNS_Server -->NE: 1.2. SeGW IP address
deactivate P_DNS_Server
End
NE->SeGW: 2.1 EstablishSecureConnection()
activate SeGW
SeGW -->NE: 2.2 Internal IP configuration
opt
SeGW -->NE: 2.3 Internal DNS
End
opt
SeGW -->NE: 2.4 Internal DHCP
End
deactivate SeGW
deactivate NE
hide footbox
skinparam defaultFontSize 11
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
A.5 Establishing connection to Software and Configuration Server (SCS)
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
Establishing connection to SCS, as depicted by Figure 5.5.1:
\@startuml
actor NE
participant \"secure DNS server:\n DNS server\" as S_DNS_Server
participant \"secure DHCP server: \n DHCP server\" as S_DHCP_Server
activate NE
opt [ [SCS IP address unavailable] ]
\|\|\|
alt [ [Secure DHCP server info available] ]
NE -> S_DHCP_Server: 1.1. Request()
activate S_DHCP_Server
S_DHCP_Server --> NE: 1.2. SCS IP address
deactivate S_DHCP_Server
Else [ [Secure DNS server info available] ]
NE->S_DNS_Server: 2.1. ResolveIP(SCS FQDN)
activate S_DNS_Server
S_DNS_Server->NE: 2.2. SCS IP address
deactivate S_DNS_Server
Else [ [both Secure DHCP and Secure DNS server info available] ]
NE->S_DHCP_Server: 3.1. Request()
activate S_DHCP_Server
S_DHCP_Server->NE: 3.2. SCS FQDN
deactivate S_DHCP_Server
NE->S_DNS_Server: 4.1. ResolveIP(SCS FQDN)
activate S_DNS_Server
S_DNS_Server-->NE: 4.2. SCS IP address
deactivate S_DNS_Server
End
End
NE->SCS: 5.1. Connect()
activate SCS
par
opt [ [Connected SCS has new configuration for this NE] ]
SCS --> NE: 5.2. Configuration
End
opt [ [Connected SCS has new software for this NE] ]
SCS-->NE: 5.3. Software
deactivate SCS
deactivate NE
End
End
hide footbox
skinparam DefaultFontSize 11
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
#