# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies concepts, use cases, requirements and solutions
for the energy efficiency assessment and optimization for energy saving of 5G
networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI ES 203 228: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Assessment of mobile
network energy efficiency\".
[3] ETSI ES 202 336-1 V1.2.1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring and
Control Interface for Infrastructure Equipment (Power, Cooling and Building
Environment Systems used in Telecommunication Networks) Part 1: Generic
Interface\".
[4] ETSI ES 202 336-12 V1.1.1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring
and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and
building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12: ICT
equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring information
model\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.432: \"Telecommunication management; Performance measurement:
File format definition\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.435: \"Telecommunication management; Performance measurement;
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) file format definition\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.436: \"Telecommunication management; Performance measurement:
Abstract Syntax Notation 1 (ASN.1) file format definition\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[13] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[14] 3GPP TR 37.816: \"Study on RAN-centric data collection and utilization
for LTE and NR\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.551: \"Energy Saving Managament (ESM); Concepts and
requirements\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[19] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 015 V3.4.1 (2020-06): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV) Release 3; Management and Orchestration; Report on NFV Information
Model\".
[20] ETSI GR NFV 003 V1.6.1 (2021-03): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Terminology for Main Concepts in NFV\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Candidate cell:** cell which can provide coverage when the original cell
goes into energySaving state.
**energySaving state:** state **in which some functions of a cell or a network
element or network function are powered-down.**
Note 1: In energySaving state, the cell or network element or network function
is still controllable.
Note 2: This is the state when the traffic goes below a certain threshold.
**notEnergySaving state: state when no energy saving in progress.**
Note 3: This is the state when the traffic goes above a certain threshold.
**ES activation:** procedure to power down a cell or network element or
network function for energy saving purposes.
Note 4: As a result, the subject cell or network element or network function
goes into energySaving state.
**ES deactivation:** procedure to power up a cell or network element or
network function.
Note 5: As a result, the subject cell or network element or network function
goes into notEnergySaving state.
**ES Probing procedure: procedure executed by an ES probing capable cell
triggered by Cell Activation procedure or ES deactivation procedure.**
**NOTE 6: The ES probing procedure** **[17]** assists the decision whether the
cell will transfer to notEnergySaving state or remain in energySaving state.
Note 7: During the ES probing procedure the ES probing capable cell is not
carrying traffic, while it can perform measurements and be visible to the UEs
in its coverage.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DV Data Volume
EC Energy Consumption
EE Energy Efficiency
PEE Power, Energy and Environmental
PNF Physical Network Function
VNF Virtualized Network Function
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 EE KPIs Overview
Telecommunication networks energy efficiency KPIs are defined by various SDOs
/ organizations and are of various natures. They can be applied to either:
\- whole networks (i.e. end-to-end), or to
\- sub-networks (e.g. the radio access network), or to
\- single network elements, or to
\- telecommunication sites, which contain network elements and site equipment.
NOTE 1: Data centers used by network operators are considered in the present
document as telecommunication sites.
Moreover, EE KPIs can also be categorized according to the operator\'s network
life cycle phase they may apply to, e.g.:
\- during the Buy phase, mobile network operators may be willing to compare
network elements from various vendors from an EE standpoint. Some EE KPIs and
measurement methods have been specified for this purpose.
\- during the Design / Build phase, mobile network operators are always faced
to several design options, and may be willing to compare them from an EE
standpoint. This may happen for the whole network, sub-networks and for
telecom sites. For telecom sites, EE KPIs have been specified.
\- during the Run phase, mobile network operators need to assess the energy
efficiency of the live network, as a whole (i.e. end-to-end), or for sub-
networks, or for single network elements or telecom sites. Some EE KPIs and
measurement methods have also been specified for this purpose.
NOTE 2: EE KPIs in the present document are only applicable for the Run phase.
Generally, EE KPIs for network elements are expressed in terms of Data Volume
divided by the Energy Consumption of the considered network elements. In the
case of radio access networks, an EE KPI variant may also be used, expressed
by the Coverage Area divided by the Energy Consumption of the considered
network elements.
The calculation of the energy efficiency of 5G networks relies on the
following principles:
\- it is based on the two high-level EE KPIs defined in ETSI ES 203 228 [2]:
\- {width="1.00625in" height="0.42430555555555555in"}, and
\- {width="1.3583333333333334in" height="0.3729166666666667in"}
\- EE~MN,DV~ may apply to the whole 5G network whereas EE~MN,CoA~ may apply
only to NG-RAN;
\- EE~MN,DV~ requires the collection of both Data Volumes (DV) and Energy
Consumption (EC) of 5G Network Functions (NF);
\- In NG-RAN, DV is measured per cell;
\- In 5GC, DV is measured per NF;
\- EC definition and measurement method for 5G PNFs rely on ETSI ES 202 336-1
[3] and ETSI ES 202 336-12 [4];
\- EC is measured by PEE parameters (cf. ETSI ES 202 336-12 [4] -- Annexes A
and B);
\- PEE measurements requirements for all deployment scenario in NG-RAN: The
3GPP management system responsible for the management of the gNB (single or
multiple vendor gNB) shall be able to collect PEE measurements data from all
PNFs in the gNB, in the same way as the other PM measurements;
\- When gNBCU/gNBCU-CP/gNBCU-UP energy consumption is assumed to be very small
compared to gNBDU and given that, in some cases, the gNBCU/gNBCU-CP/gNBCU-UP
may be virtualized, the present document only considers the energy consumed in
gNBDU(s) (in case of split scenarios) and in non-split gNBs (see clause 4.2.1
of 3GPP TS 28.541 [11] and clause 6.1.1 of 3GPP TS 38.401 [12]). There might
be a need for some correction in KPI between the different deployment
scenarios.
NOTE 3: The vendor(s) of 2-split (gNBDU/gNBCU) or 3-split gNB/en-gNB
components (gNBDU/gNBCU-CP/gNBCU-UP) may be same or different depending on the
implementations.
\- In the present document, it is assumed that NG-RAN is only composed of base
stations with built-in sensors (see ETSI ES 202 336-12 [4] -- clause 4.4.1).
Besides the parameters required to calculate the energy efficiency, e.g. DV
and EC, other parameters may be used to interpret variations in energy
efficiency KPI values from different networks. These parameters can be
classified into demography, topography and climate classes (see ETSI ES 203
228 [2] -- section 4.3), which describe the network characteristics with
regard to population density, geographical conditions and climate zones. For
each class of parameters, there can be subclasses, e.g. demography can be
further classified into dense urban, urban, sub-urban, rural or unpopulated
scenarios. For each class / subclass, the energy efficiency KPI values may be
interpreted differently.
## 4.2 Management services
The management services required for the assessment of the energy efficiency
of 5G networks are listed below:
\- Performance management services (see [5] -- clause 4.3):
\- Measurement job control service for NF.
\- Performance data file reporting service for NF.
\- Performance data streaming service for NF.
\- Management services for network function provisioning (cf. [6] -- clause
6.3):
\- Provisioning for NF.
\- Provisioning data report for NF.
\- Management services for Fault Supervision (cf. [7] -- clause 4.1.1):
\- Fault supervision data report service for NF.
\- Fault supervision data control service for NF.
## 4.3 Energy saving
### 4.3.1 Introduction
Operators are aiming at decreasing power consumption in 5G networks to lower
their operational expense with energy saving management solutions. With the
foreseen deployment of more NR base stations, e.g., small base stations with
massive MIMO in high-band, energy saving becomes even more urgent and
challenging.
Management of 5G networks contributes to energy saving by reducing energy
consumption of 5G networks, while maintaining coverage, capacity and quality
of service. The permitted impact on coverage, capacity and quality of service
is determined by operator\'s decision.
### 4.3.2 Concepts
Two energy saving states can be conceptually identified for cells, NEs and
NFs.
Conceptually, a cell or a network element or network function may be on one of
these two states with respect to energy saving:
\- notEnergySaving state
\- energySaving state
_Based on the above energy saving states, a full energy saving solution
includes two elementary procedures:_
\- Energy saving activation (change from notEnergySaving state to energySaving
state)
\- Energy saving deactivation (change from energySaving state to
notEnergySaving state)
When a cell is in energy saving state it may need candidate cells to pick up
the load. However a cell in energySaving state should not cause coverage holes
or create undue load on the surrounding cells. All traffic on that cell is
expected to be drained to other overlaid/umbrella candidate cells before the
cell moves to energySaving state.
A cell in energySaving state is not considered as a cell outage or a fault
condition. No alarms should be raised for any condition that is a consequence
of a subject cell or network element or network function moving into
energySaving state.
# 5 Specification level requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Data Volume (DV) collection
#### 5.1.1.1 Applicability
The use cases for Data Volume measurement control, data file reporting and
streaming in the following clauses 5.1.1.x are valid for all 5GS network
functions.
#### 5.1.1.2 DV measurement control
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.1 (\"NF measurement job control
service\") -- apply for measurement job control of Data Volume.
Depending on scenarios, NF measurement job control services may not exist. In
such a case, the NF measurement control of DV may be achieved as specified in
[6] -- clause 5.1.18 (\"Configuration of a 3GPP NF instance\").
Traceability: REQ-DVMCS-FUN-001, REQ-DVMCS-FUN-002, REQ-DVMCS-FUN-003, REQ-
DVMCS-FUN-004, REQ-DVMCS-FUN-005, REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-006.
#### 5.1.1.3 DV measurement data file reporting
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.2 -- apply for Data Volume
measurement data file reporting, in compliance with [8], [9], [10].
Traceability: REQ-DVFRS-FUN-010, REQ-DVFRS-FUN-011.
#### 5.1.1.4 DV measurement data streaming
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.3 -- apply for Data Volume
measurement data streaming.
Traceability: REQ-DVDS-FUN-020.
### 5.1.2 Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) measurement collection
#### 5.1.2.1 Applicability
The requirements for PEE measurement control, data file reporting and
streaming, fault supervision and configuration management in the following
clauses 5.1.2.x are only valid for 5GS physical network functions.
#### 5.1.2.2 PEE measurement control
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.1 (\"NF measurement job control
service\") -- apply for measurement job control of PEE parameters.
Depending on scenarios, NF measurement job control services may not exist. In
such a case, the NF measurement control of PEE parameters may be achieved as
specified in [6] -- clause 5.1.18 (\"Configuration of a 3GPP NF instance\").
Traceability: REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-001, REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-002, REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-003, REQ-
PEEMCS-FUN-004, REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-005.
#### 5.1.2.3 PEE measurement data file reporting
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.2 -- apply for PEE measurement data
file reporting, in compliance with [8], [9], [10].
Traceability: REQ-PEEFRS-FUN-010, REQ-PEEFRS-FUN-011.
#### 5.1.2.4 PEE measurement data streaming
Use cases specified in [5] -- clause 5.1.1.3 -- apply for PEE measurement data
streaming.
Traceability: REQ-PEEDS-FUN-020.
#### 5.1.2.5 PEE fault supervision
Use cases specified in [7] -- clause 5.1.13 (\"Report alarm notifications of
NF instance\") -- apply for PEE fault supervision.
Traceability: REQ-PEEFSS-FUN-020.
#### 5.1.2.6 PEE configuration management
Use cases specified in [6] -- clause 5.1.18 - apply for PEE configuration
management.
Traceability: REQ-PEECMS-FUN-030, REQ-PEECMS-FUN-031.
### 5.1.3 Energy saving use cases
#### 5.1.3.1 General
The objective of energy saving is to lower OPEX for mobile operators, through
the reduction of power consumption in the mobile networks that is becoming
more urgent and challenging, as there are much more network elements in NR
(e.g., small cells with massive MIMO in higher frequency bands) than those
used in LTE (TR 37.816 [14], TS 38.300 [13]). One typical scenario of energy
saving is to switch off capacity boosters when the traffic demand is low, and
re-activated them on a need basis (see clause 5.6 in TR 37.816 [14]).
The energy saving consists of two scenarios where the capacity booster cell -
gNB is fully or partially overlaid by the candidate cell(s).
#### 5.1.3.2 Capacity booster cell partially overlaid by candidate cell(s)
##### 5.1.3.2.1 Introduction
Figure 5.1.3.2.1-1 shows that a NR capacity booster cell is partially overlaid
by the gNB or eNB candidate cell(s). There can be two cases of energy saving:
\- Intra-RAT energy saving if the candidate cell is a gNB
\- Inter-RAT energy saving if the candidate cell is an eNB
{width="5.368055555555555in" height="1.4027777777777777in"}
Figure 5.1.3.2.1-1: NR capacity booster cell partially overlaid by candidate
cells
Traceability: REQ-ESCOL-FUN-1, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-2, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-3, REQ-ESCOL-
FUN-4, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-5, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-6, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-7.
##### 5.1.3.2.2 Intra-RAT energy saving
Intra-RAT energy saving focuses on a scenario where the gNB candidate cells
provides the coverage for the NR capacity booster cells that is switched off.
Intra-RAT energy saving (ES) consists of distributed energy saving where the
energy saving decision is made in the NR cells with MnS producer(s) assist to
provide relevant information, such as policies, and centralized energy saving
where the energy saving decision is made in MnS producer (see clause 15.4 in
TS 38.300 [13]).
For the distributed energy saving, the NR capacity booster cell may decide to
enter the energy saving mode when it detects that its traffic load is below
certain threshold, and its coverage can be provided by the candidate cells.
However, the NR capacity booster cell can be switched off only after the
handover actions to off-load its traffic to the candidate cells is completed
(see clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]). The candidate cell decides to re-
activate the NR capacity booster cell when it detects additional capacity is
needed (see clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]).
For the centralized energy saving, MnS producer collects the traffic load
performance measurements from the NR capacity booster cell and candidate
cells, and may request a NR capacity booster cell to enter the energy saving
mode when its traffic is below certain threshold. The NR capacity booster may
initiate handover actions to off-load the traffic to the neighbouring cells
(see clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]) prior to entering into the energy saving
mode.
##### 5.1.3.2.3 Inter-RAT energy saving
Inter-RAT energy saving focuses on a scenario where the LTE eNB provides basic
coverage, with the gNB providing the capacity booster that can be switched
off, based on its own cell load information or by MnS producer(s). The LTE eNB
is allowed to activate the dormant capacity booster NR cell (see clause 5.6 in
TR 37.816 [14]).
Inter-RAT energy saving consists of centralized energy saving where the energy
saving decision is made in MnS producer. The inter-RAT energy saving is almost
the same as the intra-RAT energy with the exception that the candidate cells
are eNB.
#### 5.1.3.3 Capacity booster cell fully overlaid by candidate cell(s)
An NG-RAN node, which connects with 5GC to provide boost capacity, may enter
into energySaving state if there is radio coverage by other radio systems --
be another NG-RAN node or an entity of another radio access technology - for
the whole coverage area of the NG-RAN node in question, see figure 5.1.3.3-1
for gNB capacity booster cell fully overlaid by candidate cell(s) case.
{width="6.524305555555555in" height="2.845138888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.3.3-1: gNB capacity booster cell fully overlaid by candidate
cell(s)
This use case applies both for Intra- and Inter-RAT Energy Saving.
**Inter-frequency Intra-RAT gNB Coverage**
Two gNB cells (Cell A, Cell B) with separate frequency bands cover the same
geographical area. Cell B has a smaller size than Cell A and is covered
totally by Cell A. Generally, Cell A is deployed to provide continuous
coverage of the area, while Cell B increases the capacity of the special sub-
areas, such as hot spots. The ES activation procedure in the coverage of Cell
B (ES area) may be triggered in case that light traffic in Cell B is detected.
Cell B ES activation may also be triggered when the traffic of ES area
(measured by candidate Cell A) resumes to a high level. A Cell B capable of ES
probing can execute the ES probing procedure and based on Cell B measurements
the centralized or distributed ES management can decide if the Cell B needs to
be activated and take portion of the traffic from Cell A.
**Inter-RAT gNB Coverage**
Two IRAT cells (Cell A, Cell B) cover the same geographical area. gNB Cell B
is totally covered by inter-RAT Cell A (such as legacy system UMTS or LTE).
Cell A is deployed to provide continuous coverage of basic eMBB services in
the area, while Cell B enhances the capability of the area to support eMBB
services with high data rate or URLLC services. The ES activation in the
coverage of Cell B (ES area) may be triggered in case that no eMBB services
with high data rate or URLLC traffic in Cell B is detected or load threshold
for going into energySaving state is reached. Cell B ES deactivation may be
triggered when the eMBB services with high data rate or URLLC service request
in ES area is restarted again or load threshold for going out of energySaving
state (i.e. going into notEnergySaving state) is reached. A Cell B capable of
ES probing can execute the ES probing procedure and based on Cell B
measurements the centralized or distributed ES management can decide if the
Cell B needs to be activated and take portion of the traffic from Cell A.
Different scenarios of gNB capacity booster cell fully overlaid by candidate
cell(s) are listed in below table 5.1.3.3-1.
**Table 5.1.3.3-1: Diff** erent scenarios of gNB capacity booster cell fully
overlaid by candidate cell(s)
* * *
Scenario Capacity booster Coverage provider Scenario 1 gNB eNB Inter-RAT ES 2
gNB gNB Intra-RAT ES 3 gNB eNB and gNB Intra-RAT ES, Inter-RAT ES 4 gNB NB
Inter-RAT ES 5 gNB eNB and NB Inter-RAT ES
* * *
Traceability: REQ-ESCOL-FUN-1, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-2, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-3, REQ-ESCOL-
FUN-4, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-5, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-6, REQ-ESCOL-FUN-7.
#### 5.1.3.4 Switch off edge UPFs during off-peak traffic hours
To meet service demands, e.g. in terms of latency, the Network Operator (NOP)
decided to deploy some UPFs at the edge of its core network, i.e. closer to
low latency demanding service users than if they were deployed in its central
core network.
During off-peak periods and depending on service users' profile, observed
behaviour and habits, the NOP may decide that some of these edge UPFs are no
longer justifed. For example, at night, in some locations where no user paying
for low latency services is connected, the remaining traffic (not demanding
low latency) can be redirected from the edge UPFs to central core UPFs. The
NOP may then decide to:
\- redirect the remaining traffic to and from these edge UPFs to existing
central core UPFs, and
\- decommission these edge UPFs, or scale them in/down, or any other action
enabling to achieve energy saving, depending on e.g. whether these UPFs are
virtualized or not.
The decommissioning of edge UPFs can be done e.g. by administratively putting
them out of service so that they can't carry any more traffic, either with
immediate effect or only when no more users are using these UPFs.
The NOP may decide at any time to come back to the initial situation.
Traceability: REQ-SOUPF-FUN-1, REQ-SOUPF-FUN-2.
## 5.2 Requirements
### 5.2.1 Requirements for Data Volume (DV) measurement
#### 5.2.1.1 Applicability
The requirements for Data Volume measurement control, data file reporting and
streaming in the following clauses 5.2.1.x are valid for all 5GS network
functions.
#### 5.2.1.2 Requirements for DV measurement control
**REQ-DVMCS-FUN-001: The management service producer responsible for DV
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to request starting the collection of DV measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-DVMCS-FUN-002: The management service producer responsible for DV
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to indicate the reporting method, granularity period, reporting period, etc.
for DV measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-DVMCS-FUN-003: The management service producer responsible for DV
measurement control shall have the capability to generate the DV measurement
data of NF(s) according to the request of the consumer.**
**REQ-DVMCS-FUN-004: The management service producer responsible for DV
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to request stopping the collection of DV measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-DVMCS-FUN-005: The management service producer responsible for DV
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to query the information about the ongoing collection of DV measurement data
of NF(s).**
#### 5.2.1.3 Requirements for DV measurement data file reporting
**REQ-DVFRS-FUN-010:** The management service producer responsible for DV
performance data file reporting shall have the capability to send the
notification about DV performance data (of NF(s)) file ready to its authorized
consumer.
**REQ-DVFRS-FUN-011:** The management service producer responsible for DV
performance data file reporting shall have the capability to allow its
authorized consumer to fetch the DV performance data (of NF(s)) file.
#### 5.2.1.4 Requirements for DV measurement data streaming service
**REQ-DVDS-FUN-020:** The management service producer responsible for DV
performance data streaming shall have the capability to send the stream
containing DV performance data (of NF(s)) to its authorized consumer.
### 5.2.2 Requirements for Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) measurement
#### 5.2.2.1 Applicability
The requirements for PEE measurement control, data file reporting and
streaming, fault supervision and configuration management in the following
clauses 5.2.2.x are only valid for 5GS physical network functions.
#### 5.2.2.2 Requirements for PEE measurement control
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-001: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to request starting the collection of PEE measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-002: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to indicate the reporting method, granularity period, reporting period, etc.
for PEE measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-003: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability to generate the PEE measurement
data of NF(s) according to the request of the consumer.**
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-004: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to request stopping the collection of PEE measurement data of NF(s).**
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-005: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to query the information about the ongoing collection of PEE measurement data
of NF(s).**
**REQ-PEEMCS-FUN-006: The management service producer responsible for PEE
measurement control shall have the capability collecting** the PEE measurement
data of PNF(s) in gNB according to the request of the consumer**.**
#### 5.2.2.3 Requirements for PEE measurement data file reporting
**REQ-PEEFRS-FUN-010:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
performance data file reporting shall have the capability to send the
notification about PEE performance data (of NF(s)) file ready to its
authorized consumer.
**REQ-PEEFRS-FUN-011:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
performance data file reporting shall have the capability to allow its
authorized consumer to fetch the PEE performance data (of NF(s)) file.
#### 5.2.2.4 Requirements for PEE measurement data streaming
**REQ-PEEDS-FUN-020:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
performance data streaming shall have the capability to send the stream
containing PEE performance data (of NF(s)) to its authorized consumer
#### 5.2.2.5 Requirements for PEE fault supervision
**REQ-PEEFSS-FUN-020:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
fault supervision shall have the capability allowing its authorized consumer
to be notified in case of PEE related alarms.
#### 5.2.2.6 Requirements for PEE configuration management
**REQ-PEECMS-FUN-030:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
configuration management shall have the capability allowing its authorized
consumer to modify configurable PEE related parameters.
**REQ-PEECMS-FUN-031:** The management service producer responsible for PEE
configuration management shall have the capability allowing its authorized
consumer to be notified in case of PEE related configuration changes.
### 5.2.3 Requirements for energy saving
#### 5.2.3.1 Requirements for capacity booster cell overlaid by candidate
cell(s)
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-1:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to
configure the cell overlaid relations, and energy saving policies, and to
enable or disable the function for a NR capacity booster cell to enter energy
saving mode.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-2:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability to send notifications to the authorized
consumer to indicate the energy saving mode has been activated or deactivated
in the NR capacity booster cell.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-3:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to collect
the traffic load performance measurements of NR capacity booster and candidate
cells.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-4:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
the NR capacity booster cell to enter the energy saving mode.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-5:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to
deactivate the energy saving mode of a NR capacity booster cell.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-6:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to
configure one or more related cells as the candidate cells to take over the
coverage when the original NR capacity booster cell is going into energy
saving mode.
**REQ-ESCOL-FUN-7:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request
the NR capacity booster cell to leave the energy saving mode.
#### 5.2.3.2 Requirements for switch off edge UPFs during off-peak hours
**REQ-SOUPF-FUN-1:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to collect
the traffic load performance measurements of its edge UPFs.
**REQ-SOUPF-FUN-2:** The management service producer responsible for energy
saving should have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to
administratively prohibit selected edge UPFs from performing services for its
users, either with immediate effect or only when no more users are using these
UPFs.
## 5.3 Actor roles
Consumers of management services involved in use cases and requirements \- see
clauses 5.1 and 5.2.
## 5.4 Telecommunication resources
The telecommunication resources include network function management functions
and/or the managed network functions.
# 6 Solutions for energy efficiency
## 6.1 Solutions for assessment of mobile network data energy efficiency
### 6.1.1 Energy efficiency of NG-RAN
Assessment of NG-RAN data EE is based on the high-level mobile network data EE
KPI defined in clause 3.1 and clause 5.3 of ETSI ES 203 228 [2]:
> {width="1.00625in" height="0.42430555555555555in"}
NG-RAN data EE KPI is is obtained by the data volume divided by Energy
Consumption (EC) of the considered network elements. The KPI is defined for
both non-split and split gNB scenarios. This KPI is defined in clause 6.7.1 of
TS 28.554 [18].
The following PEE (Power, Energy and Environmental) measurement may be used as
the EC~MN~:
\- PNF Energy consumption (cf. clause 5.1.1.19.3 of TS 28.552 [15]): This
measurement provides the energy consumed (in kilowatt-hours) by the subject
gNB.
### 6.1.2 Energy efficiency of network slices
#### 6.1.2.1 Introduction
Assessment of the energy efficiency of 5G network slices is based on KPIs
defined in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.
The Generic network slice Energy Efficiency KPI is defined as the ratio
between the performance of network slice to the Energy Consumption of the
network slice. The KPI for Energy Consumption of the network slice is defined
in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.3.3.
The energy efficiency of 5G network slice is defined for each slice type as
follows:
1) Energy efficiency of eMBB network slice, with the following variants:
> \- Energy efficiency of eMBB network slice, where the KPI is obtained by the
> sum of UL and DL data volumes at N3 interface(s) of the network slice,
> divided by the energy consumption of the network slice. This KPI is defined
> in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.2.
>
> \- Energy efficiency of eMBB network slice -- RAN-based, where the
> performance of the network slice is is obtained by summing up UL and DL data
> volumes at F1-U, Xn-U and X2-U interface(s) of gNBs, on a per S-NSSAI basis,
> divided by energy consumption of the RAN-only network slice. This KPI is
> defined in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.2a.
2) Energy efficiency of URLLC network slice, with the following variants:
> \- Energy efficiency of URLLC network slice based on latency of the network
> slice, where the KPI is obtained by the inverse of the average end-to-end
> User Plane (UP) latency of the network slice divided by the energy
> consumption of the network slice. This KPI is defined in TS 28.554 [18]
> clause 6.7.2.3.2.
>
> \- Based on both latency and data volume of the network slice, where the KPI
> is obtained by the product of the sum of the weighted UL and DL traffic data
> volumes at N3 interface(s) or N9 interface of the PSA UPF of the network
> slice multiplied by the inverse of the end-to-end User Plane (UP) latency of
> the network slice, divided by the energy consumption of the network slice.
> This KPI is defined in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.3.3.
3) Energy efficiency of MIoT network slice, with the following variants:
> \- Based on the number of registered subscribers of the network slice, where
> the KPI is obtained by the maximum number of registered subscribers to the
> network slice divided by the energy consumption of the network slice. This
> KPI is defined in TS 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.4.1.
>
> \- Based on the number of active UEs in the network slice, where the KPI is
> obtained by the mean number of active UEs of the network slice divided by
> the energy consumption of the network slice. This KPI is defined in TS
> 28.554 [18] clause 6.7.2.4.2.
#### 6.1.2.2 Void
#### 6.1.2.3 Void
#### 6.1.2.4 Void
#### 6.1.2.5 Void
## 6.2 Solutions for energy saving
### 6.2.1 Overview
For the scenarios where the capacity booster cell is fully or partially
overlaid by the candidate cell(s), the key of energy saving solution is that
3GPP management system or NG-RAN node owning the capacity booster cell has the
capability to autonomously decide to deactivate such capacity booster cell to
lower energy consumption (in energySaving state) or activate the capacity
booster cell in energySaving state back to notEnergySaving state due to the
increasing traffic above the threshold. The cell activation/deactivation
decision is typically based on the load information of the related cells and
the energy saving policies (e.g. service related information as one kind of
energy saving policies) set by operators.
The service related information may include service characteristic information
and/or tenant information of service.
The service characteristic information may include service type information,
service name information, and service priority information.
\- The service type information indicates the type of service that is being
provided via traffic carried by cells under observation, it can be decided by
operator\'s policy, for example, one kind of service type may be eMBB, URLLC,
mIoT, or V2X etc, or another kind of service type may be voice, video,
industrial control, web browsing, or autonomous driving;
\- The service name may be human-readable name according to operator\'s
policy;
\- The service priority information may be, for example, high priority, medium
priority, or low priority.
The tenant information of service may include tenant type information, tenant
name information, tenant priority information
\- The tenant type may be, for example, Business to Consumer (B2C) tenant,
Business to Business (B2B) tenant, Business to Household (B2H) tenant,
Business to Business to Everything (B2B2X) tenant;
\- The tenant name may be human-readable name according to operator\'s policy;
\- The tenant priority information may be, for example, high priority, medium
priority, or low priority.
The service related information can be obtained from UEs, 5GC NFs (such as
UPFs or SMFs) or operators\' information provisioned in 3GPP management
system.
Based on the load information of the related cells and the service related
information of the the area under consideration, 3GPP management system
decides ES actions for the corresponding cells. 3GPP management system may use
different weight values for the factors that can influence the ES actions -
load information of the related cells and the service related information of
the analysis area.
NOTE: How the weight values are assigned by the operator is not subject to
standardization.
ES activation procedure and ES deactivation procedure may be initiated in
different ways as below:
\- Centralized ES solution
\- Consumer of centralized MnS for ES requests the producer to configure ES
procedure trigger points (e.g. cell traffic load crossing threshold, service
characteristic information or tenant information of service), monitoring the
traffic situation of capacity booster cells and candidate cells.
\- Consumer of centralized MnS for ES requests the producer to instruct the
capacity booster cells to move from notEnergySaving state into energySaving
state (e.g. according to some traffic performance measurements which cross
below some load thresholds and service characteristic information or tenant
information of service)
\- Consumer of centralized MnS for ES requests the producer to instruct the
capacity booster cells to move from energySaving state into notEnergySaving
state (e.g. according to some traffic performance measurements which cross
above some load thresholds and service characteristic information or tenant
information of service)
\- Distributed ES solution
\- NF provisioning MnS consumer requests the producer to set policies and
conditions when these policies/conditions are met, the capacity booster cells
will move from notEnergySaving state into energySaving state. Examples for
policies/conditions are: A time period, during which energy saving is or not
allowed; load thresholds to be considered for energy saving decisions; which
of the RATs should be considered with priority in Inter-RAT scenario; service
characteristic information or tenant information of service.
\- Based on these policies/conditions and further information - e.g. the
operational status of the candidate cell to take over the coverage- the NG-RAN
node controls the energy saving procedures (ES activation procedure and ES
deactivation procedure) in the network nodes. The network operator is informed
about configuration changes which are triggered by the NG-RAN nodes. For
example, the gNB owning the capacity booster cells moves itself to/from
energySaving state autonomously and sends notifications of configuration
changes to operator.
### 6.2.2 Centralized energy saving solution
#### 6.2.2.1 Procedures
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Energy saving activation
NOTE: The centralized energy saving solution in clause 6.2.2 is Domain-
Centralized ES solution because the scope of the centralized ES solution is
for NR only.
Figure 6.2.2.1.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how MnS producer of
Domain Centralized SON ES management makes the NR capacity booster cell enter
the energySaving state.
{width="6.6819444444444445in" height="2.2381944444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1.1-1: Centralized energy saving activation
It is assumed that all relevant MOIs have been created.
**Energy saving activation:**
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES collects the traffic load
performance measurements from the NR capacity booster cell and candidate
cells.
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES analyzes the traffic load
performance measurements and decides that the NR capacity booster cell should
enter the energySaving state.
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES consumes the management service for
NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to request the NR
capacity booster cell to enter the energySaving state.
The NR capacity booster cell may initiate handover actions to off-load the
traffic to the neighbour cells (see clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]), prior to
entering into the energySaving state, and then change to the energySaving
state, leading to a notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges being sent to the MnS
producer for Domain-centralized ES that the NR capacity booster cell has
entered the energySaving state.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 Energy saving deactivation
Figure 6.2.2.1.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how MnS producer of
Domain-Centralized ES management makes the NR capacity booster cell leave the
energySaving state.
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="2.2194444444444446in"}
Figure 6.2.2.1.2-1: Centralized energy saving deactivation
**Energy saving deactivation:**
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES collects the traffic load
performance measurements from the candidate cells.
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES decides to re-activate the NR
capacity booster cell if it detects that the capacity is needed (see clause
15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]).
The MnS producer for Domain-centralized ES consumes the management service for
NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-activate the NR
capacity booster cell, and changes to the notEnergySaving state, leading to a
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges being sent to the consumer to indicate that the
NR capacity booster cell has been re-activated.
#### 6.2.2.2 Management services
##### 6.2.2.2.1 MnS component type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | Supported by the Provisioning | | 11.1.1 of TS 28.532 [16]: | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | | 28.531 [6]. | | - createMOI | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Notifications defined in clause | Supported by the Provisioning | | 11.1.1 of TS 28.532 [16]: | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | | 28.531 [6]. | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 6.2.2.2.2 MnS Component Type B
###### 6.2.2.2.2.1 Objective and targets
The objective of ES is to automatically set parameters so as to maximize NG-
RAN data energy efficiency - see Table 6.2.2.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.2.1.2.1-1. Energy Saving targets
* * *
Targets Definition Legal Values NG-RAN data Energy Efficiency Data Volume (DV)
divided by Energy Consumption (EC) of the considered network elements. In
bit/J.
* * *
###### 6.2.2.2.2.2 Control information
The parameters in CESManagementFunction IOC, which is defined in TS 28.541
[11], are used to control the Domain-SON ES functionality.
##### 6.2.2.2.3 MnS Component Type C
###### 6.2.2.2.3.1 Parameters to be optimized
This is out of the scope of the present document.
###### 6.2.2.2.3.2 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to Domain-centralized SON ES are captured in
Table 6.2.2.2.3.2-1:
Table 6.2.2.2.3.2-1. Energy saving management related performance measurements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | Description | Related targets | | measurements | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.Pdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered to PDCP | | | | layer -- see clause | | | | 5.1.2.1.1.1 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | configured PLMN ID | | | | and per QoS level | | | | (mapped 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.Pdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | from PDCP layer to | | | | higher layers -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.1 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per configured PLMN | | | | ID and per QoS level | | | | (mapped 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on X2 | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the downlink | | | | delivered on X2 | | | | interface in | | | | DC-scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.1.2 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI or QCI in NR | | | | option 3). | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on Xn | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the downlink | | | | delivered on Xn | | | | interface in | | | | DC-scenarios | | | | scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.1.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on X2 | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the uplink delivered | | | | on X2 interface in | | | | NSA scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.2 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI or QCI in NR | | | | option 3). | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on Xn | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the uplink delivered | | | | on Xn interface in | | | | SA scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.F1uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to GNB-DU | | | | (F1-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.XnuPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to | | | | external gNB-CU-UP | | | | (Xn-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.X2uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to | | | | external eNB (X2-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI). In case of | | | | split gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.F1uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | GNB-DU (F1-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.4 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. In case of | | | | split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.XnuPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | external gNB-CU-UP | | | | (Xn-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.4 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.X2uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | external eNB (X2-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.4 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI). In case of | | | | split gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PNF Energy | Energy consumed -- | NG-RAN data Energy | | consumption | see clause | Efficiency | | | 5.1.1.19.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.2.3 Distributed energy saving solution
#### 6.2.3.0 Management service components used for Distributed SON ES
solution
The MnS components used for Distributed SON ES solution are listed in the
following clauses 6.2.3.1.1, 6.2.3.1.2 and 6.2.3.1.3.
#### 6.2.3.1 Management services
##### 6.2.3.1.1 MnS component type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | Supported by the Provisioning | | 11.1.1 of TS 28.532 [16]: | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | | 28.531 [6]. | | - createMOI | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Notifications defined in clause | Supported by the Provisioning | | 11.1.1 of TS 28.532 [16]: | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | | 28.531 [6]. | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 6.2.3.1.2 MnS Component Type B
###### 6.2.3.1.2.1 Objective and targets
The objective of ES is to automatically set parameters so as to maximize NG-
RAN data energy efficiency - see Table 6.2.3.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.2.3.1.2.1-1. Energy Saving targets
* * *
Targets Definition Legal Values NG-RAN data Energy Efficiency Data Volume (DV)
divided by Energy Consumption (EC) of the considered network elements. In
bit/J.
* * *
###### 6.2.3.1.2.2 Control information
The parameters in DESManagementFunction IOC, which is defined in TS 28.541
[11], are used to control the Distributed SON ES functionality.
##### 6.2.3.1.3 MnS Component Type C
###### 6.2.3.1.3.1 Parameters to be optimized
This is out of the scope of the present document.
###### 6.2.3.1.3.2 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to Distributed SON ES are captured in Table
6.2.3.1.3.2-1:
Table 6.2.3.1.3.2-1. Energy saving management related performance measurements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | Description | Related targets | | measurements | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.Pdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered to PDCP | | | | layer -- see clause | | | | 5.1.2.1.1.1 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | configured PLMN ID | | | | and per QoS level | | | | (mapped 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.Pdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | from PDCP layer to | | | | higher layers -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.1 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per configured PLMN | | | | ID and per QoS level | | | | (mapped 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on X2 | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the downlink | | | | delivered on X2 | | | | interface in | | | | DC-scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.1.2 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI or QCI in NR | | | | option 3). | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on Xn | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the downlink | | | | delivered on Xn | | | | interface in | | | | DC-scenarios | | | | scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.1.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on X2 | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the uplink delivered | | | | on X2 interface in | | | | NSA scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.2 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI or QCI in NR | | | | option 3). | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Cell PDCP SDU | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | Data Volume on Xn | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | Interface | the uplink delivered | | | | on Xn interface in | | | | SA scenarios -- see | | | | clause 5.1.2.1.2.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. | | | | | | | | In case of non-split | | | | gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.F1uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to GNB-DU | | | | (F1-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.XnuPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to | | | | external gNB-CU-UP | | | | (Xn-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.X2uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeDL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the downlink | | | | delivered from | | | | GNB-CU-UP to | | | | external eNB (X2-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.3 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI). In case of | | | | split gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.F1uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | GNB-DU (F1-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.4 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI) and per | | | | S-NSSAI. In case of | | | | split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.XnuPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | external gNB-CU-UP | | | | (Xn-U interface) -- | | | | see clause | | | | 5.1.3.6.2.4 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15], per | | | | PLMN ID and per QoS | | | | level (mapped 5QI) | | | | and per S-NSSAI. In | | | | case of split gNBs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRB.X2uPdc | Data Volume (amount | NG-RAN data Energy | | pSduVolumeUL_Filter | of PDCP SDU bits) in | Efficiency | | | the uplink delivered | | | | to GNB-CU-UP from | | | | external eNB (X2-U | | | | interface) -- see | | | | clause 5.1.3.6.2.4 | | | | of TS 28.552 [15], | | | | per PLMN ID and per | | | | QoS level (mapped | | | | 5QI). In case of | | | | split gNBs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PNF Energy | Energy consumed -- | NG-RAN data Energy | | consumption | see clause | Efficiency | | | 5.1.1.19.3 of TS | | | | 28.552 [15] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.2.3.2 Procedures
##### 6.2.3.2.1 Energy saving activation
Figure 6.2.3.2.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how MnS producer of
Distributed ES management makes the NR capacity booster cell enter the
energySaving state.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="1.9597222222222221in"}
Figure 6.2.3.2.1-1: Distributed energy saving activation
It is assumed that all relevant MOIs have been created.
**Energy saving activation:**
The MnS producer for distributed ES management consumes the management service
for NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to:
\- Configure the cell overlaid relations for NR capacity booster cells, and
macro cells as candidate cells
\- Configure the ES policy that includes the thresholds for the energy saving
activation and deactivation for NR capacity booster cells and candidate cells
\- Enable the distribute energy saving function for intra-RAT or inter-RAT.
NOTE: Void
The distributed ES function makes decision for the NR capacity booster cell to
enter the energySaving state based on the cell traffic load information (see
clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]).
The distributed ES function changes to the energySaving state, leading to a
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (see clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532 [16]) being sent
to the MnS producer for distributed ES management to indicate the NR capacity
booster has entered the energySaving state.
##### 6.2.3.2.2 Energy saving deactivation
Figure 6.2.3.2.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how Distributed ES
function makes the NR capacity booster cell leave the energySaving state.
{width="6.639583333333333in" height="1.4472222222222222in"}
Figure 6.2.3.2.2-1: Distributed energy saving deactivation
**Energy saving deactivation:**
The distributed ES function monitors the traffic load of candidate cell, and
decides to re-activate the NR capacity booster cell when it detects that
additional capacity is needed (see clause 15.4.2 in TS 38.300 [13]).
The distributed ES function changes to the notEnergySaving state, leading to a
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges being sent to the MnS producer for distributed
ES management to indicate the NR capacity booster has been re-activated.
## 6.3 Solutions for energy consumption
### 6.3.1 Solution for energy consumption of PNFs
TS 28.552 [15] clause 5.1.1.19 defines measurements for the Energy Consumption
(EC) of Physical Network Functions (PNF), associated to corresponding
ManagedElement IOC instances.
The method for collecting these measurements is described in ETSI ES 202
336-12 [4].
### 6.3.2 Solution for energy consumption of VNF/VNFCs
#### 6.3.2.1 Introduction
In case of Network Functions (NF) composed of Virtualized Network Functions
(VNF) running on a Network Function Virtualization Infrastructure (NFVI), it
is expected to be able to measure the energy consumption of each VNF
separately. However, in a NFVI, the finest grain at which Energy Consumption
can be measured is the NFVI Node, making it impossible to measure the energy
consumed by each and every VNF separately given that a) a VNF can run on more
than one NFVI node and b) a NFVI node can support more than one VNF.
Therefore, this clause describes a solution for estimating the energy
consumption of VNFs.
ETSI GR NFV-IFA 015 [19] states that:
\- a VNF is composed of 1-to-many VNF Component(s) (VNFC) -- see diagram
below.
\- a VNFC runs over a single VirtualisationContainer -- see diagram below.
{width="1.7395833333333333in" height="3.28125in"}
Figure 3.2.1-1: VNF-VNFC-Virtualisation Container relationship
where a Virtualisation Container is defined in ETSI GR NFV 003 [20] as
follows:
\"
_partition of a compute node that provides an isolated virtualised computation
environment._
_NOTE: Examples of virtualisation container includes virtual machine and OS
container._
\".
Hence, a Virtualisation Container runs on a single NFVI Compute Node. A NFVI
Compute Node may support 1-to-many Virtualisation Container(s).
To estimate the Energy Consumption of VNF / VNFCs, it is assumed that:
\- Pre-condition #1: there exists a Management Function (MF) in charge of
estimating the energy consumption of the VNFs.
\- Pre-condition #2: this MF knows on which NFVI node(s), the VNF/VNFC
instances run;
\- Pre-condition #3: NFVI nodes are equipped with embedded or external sensors
(see ETSI ES 202 336-12).
#### 6.3.2.2 Solution for VM-based VNF/VNFCs
##### 6.3.2.2.1 Solution based on vCPU usage of virtual compute resources
The procedure for estimating the energy consumption of VNF/VNFCs based on the
vCPU usage of underlying virtual compute resources is as follows:
1\. The MF in charge of estimating the energy consumption of VNFs collects
Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) measurements from NFVI nodes (see clause
6.3.1), during a given period of time. The procedure described here is
independent from whether the NFVI nodes are equipped with embedded sensors or
external sensors;
2\. The MF subscribes to PM notifications towards the VNFM, so as to receive
notifications about the vCPU mean usage of selected VNF/VNFC instances (see
ETSI GS NFV IFA 008 [14] clause 7.4.4) for a given period of time (same
observation period as in 1);
3\. The MF requests the VNFM to create a PM job to collect the vCPU usage of
selected VNF/VNFC instances (see ETSI GS NFV IFA 008 [14] clause 7.4.2);
4\. The VNFM subscribes to PM notifications towards the VIM, so as to receive
notifications about the vCPU usage of the virtual compute instances on which
each VNF/VNFC instance runs (see ETSI GS NFV IFA 006 [20] clause 7.7.5);
5\. The VNFM requests the VIM to create a PM job to collect the vCPU usage of
the virtual compute instances on which each VNF/VNFC instance runs and whose
IDs are provided as input parameters of the CreatePMJob request (see ETSI GS
NFV IFA 006 [20] clause 7.7.2);
6\. The VIM gets, at pre-defined intervals, the process utilization compute
metric values from all CPU Cores of the NFVI (see ETSI NFV TST 008 [14] --
clause 6.6). Whether the VIM gets this data in pull mode or in push mode is
out of scope of the present document;
7\. The VIM aggregates them per virtual compute resource and calculates their
arithmetic mean per virtual compute resource; this per virtual compute
resource arithmetic mean of process utilization compute metric values is
called VCpuUsageMean (see ETSI GS NFV IFA 027 clause 7.1.2);
8\. The VIM notifies the VNFM about VCpuUsageMean measurement(s) for the
virtual compute instance(s) (see ETSI GS NFV IFA 006 [20] clause 7.7.6);
9\. The VNFM maps the received VCpuUsageMean measurement(s) from virtual
compute instances to the VNF/VNFC instance(s);
10\. The VNFM generates the measurement for the subject VNF/VNFC instances by
assigning the value of the multiple VCpuUsageMean measurements received (see
ETSI GS NFV IFA 027 [18] clause 7.2.2);
11\. The VNFM notifies the Management Function in charge of estimating the 5GC
NF EC, about the average VCpuUsageMean of each virtual compute instance used
by the VNF/VNFC instance(s) which constitute the NF (see ETSI GS NFV IFA 008
[14] clause 7.4.5);
12\. NF energy consumption can be now estimated as follows:
\- The energy consumed by the NF is the sum of the energy consumed by all its
constituent VNF/VNFC instances.
\- For each VNF/VNFC instance, its estimated energy consumption is a
proportion of the NFVI node energy consumption on which it runs.
\- This proportion is equal to the vCPU mean usage of the VNF/VNFC instance
relatively to the sum of the vCPU mean usage of all VNF/VNFC instances running
on the same NFVI node.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Plant UML source code
# A.1 Distributed energy saving activation
\@startuml
title Distributed energy saving activation Diagram
participant \"MnS producer of Distributed ES\" as MnSProdDSON
participant \"Provisioning MnS producer\" as MnSProdProv
participant \"Distributed Energy Saving function\" as DESFunction
MnSProdProv \modifyMOIAttributes\ to configure
cell overlaid relations
DESFunction \modifyMOIAttributes\ to configure ES
policy (incl. thresholds)
DESFunction \modifyMOIAttributes\ to set ESswitch
to \'ON\'
DESFunction \ MnSProdProv: 7. Inform that energySaving state has been changed
to \'ON\'
MnSProdProv -> MnSProdDSON: 8. \notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\
(energySaving, old value = \'off\', new value = \'on\')
end
\@enduml
# A.2 Distributed energy saving deactivation
\@startuml
title Distributed energy saving deactivation Diagram
participant \"MnS producer of Distributed ES\" as MnSProdDSON
participant \"Provisioning MnS producer\" as MnSProdProv
participant \"Distributed Energy Saving function\" as DESFunction
note over DESFunction: Monitors the traffic load of the candidate cell
note over DESFunction: Detects that additioal capacity is needed
opt if decision is taken to re-activate the NR capacity booster cell
DESFunction -> MnSProdProv: 8. Inform that energySaving state has been changed
to \'OFF\'
MnSProdProv -> MnSProdDSON: 9. \notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\
(energySaving, old value = \'on\', new value = \'off\')
end
\@enduml
# A.3 Centralized energy saving activation
\@startuml
title Centralized energy saving activation Diagram
participant \"MnS producer of Centralized ES\" as MnSProdCSON
participant \"Performance Assurance MnS producer\" as MnSProdPA
participant \"Provisioning MnS producer\" as MnSProdProv
participant \"NR Capacity Booster Cell\" as NRCapacityBCell
participant \"NR Cells\" as NRCandidateCells
MnSProdPA \ MnSProdCSON: 2. Collects traffic load performance measurements
note over MnSProdCSON: Analyzes traffic load performance measurements
opt if decision is taken that the NR capacity booster cell should enter the
energySaving state
MnSProdCSON -> MnSProdProv: 3. \modifyMOIAttributes\ (NR Capacity
Booster Cell, (energySaving, old value = \'off\', new value = \'on\'))
MnSProdProv -> NRCapacityBCell: 4. Configures NR Capacity Booster Cell
note over NRCapacityBCell: 5. May initiate handover actions
MnSProdProv -> NRCandidateCells: 6. Configures Candidate Cells
note over NRCapacityBCell: 7. Enters energySaving state
NRCapacityBCell -> MnSProdProv: 8. Informs that energySaving state has changed
MnSProdProv -> MnSProdCSON: 9. \notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\ (NR
Capacity Booster Cell, (energySaving, old value = \'off\', new value =
\'on\'))
end
\@enduml
# A.4 Centralized energy saving deactivation
\@startuml
title Centralized energy saving deactivation Diagram
participant \"MnS producer of Centralized ES\" as MnSProdCSON
participant \"Performance Assurance MnS producer\" as MnSProdPA
participant \"Provisioning MnS producer\" as MnSProdProv
participant \"NR Capacity Booster Cell\" as NRCapacityBCell
participant \"NR Cells\" as NRCandidateCells
MnSProdPA \ MnSProdCSON: 2. Collects traffic load performance measurements
note over MnSProdCSON: 3. Analyzes traffic load performance measurements
opt if capacity is needed
note over MnSProdCSON: 4. Decision is taken to reactivate the NR capacity
booster cell
MnSProdCSON -> MnSProdProv: 5. \modifyMOIAttributes\ (NR Capacity
Booster Cell, (energySaving, old value = \'on\', new value = \'off\'))
MnSProdProv -> NRCapacityBCell: 5. Configures NR Capacity Booster Cell
note over NRCapacityBCell: 6. May initiate handover actions
MnSProdProv -> NRCandidateCells: 7. Configures Candidate Cells
note over NRCapacityBCell: 7. Leaves energySaving state
NRCapacityBCell -> MnSProdProv: 8. Informs that energySaving state has changed
MnSProdProv -> MnSProdCSON: 9. \notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges\ (NR
Capacity Booster Cell, (energySaving, old value = \'on\', new value =
\'off\'))
end
\@enduml
#