# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 28.404: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Concepts, use
cases and requirements\";
TS 28.405: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Control and
configuration\";
**TS 28.406: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Information
definition and transport\".**
One main motivation of the mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience, which is why the evaluation of the user experience? at the UE side
is vital to network operators. This is especially true when the operators
provide high bit rate real-time services like streaming services (typically
video services), where even intermittent quality degradation is very annoying.
Many of these streaming services are a significant part of the commercial
traffic growth rate, therefore the focus is on the end users\' experience.
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at session level on a number of UEs.
The capability to log information within a UE, and in particular the QoE of an
end user service, initiated by an operator, provides the operator with QoE
information. The collected information (specified in 3GPP TS 26.247 [7])
cannot be deduced from performance measurements in the mobile network.
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE.
The QoE information is collected by the management system for analysis and/or
KPI calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection record content definition and management. It covers the Quality of
Experience (QoE) measurement data content, their format and transfer across
UMTS networks and LTE networks. The measurements that are collected are DASH
[7] and MTSI [8] measurements.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.404: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection;
Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.405: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection;
Control and configuration\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.307: \" Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.308: \"Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3GP 3GPP file format
3GP-DASH 3GPP Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
MPD Media Presentation Description
MTSI Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
QMC QoE Measurement Collection
QoE Quality of Experience
# 4 QoE record contents
## 4.1 General
The QoE record may contain QoE metrics for 3GP-DASH and MTSI.
## 4.2 QoE metrics for 3GP-DASH
### 4.2.1 QoE Metric Definitions
#### 4.2.1.1 Introduction
This clause provides the general QoE metric definitions and measurement
framework.
The semantics are defined using an abstract syntax. Items in this abstract
syntax have one of the following primitive types (Integer, Real, Boolean,
Enum, String) or one of the following compound types:
\- Objects: an unordered sequence of (key, value) pairs, where the key always
has string type and is unique within the sequence.
\- List: an ordered list of items.
\- Set: an unordered set of items.
Additionally, there are two kinds of timestamp defined, i.e. _real time_
(wall-clock time) and _media time_.
#### 4.2.1.2 Representation Switch Events
Clause 10.2.3 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metrics for representation switch
events.
#### 4.2.1.3 Average Throughput
Clause 10.2.4 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for average throughput.
#### 4.2.1.4 Initial Playout Delay
Clause 10.2.5 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for initial playout delay.
#### 4.2.1.5 Buffer Level
Clause 10.2.6 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metrics for buffer level status
events.
#### 4.2.1.6 Play List
Clause 10.2.7 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for play list.
#### 4.2.1.7 MPD Information
Clause 10.2.8 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for MPD information.
#### 4.2.1.8 Playout Delay for Media Start-up
Clause 10.2.9 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for playout delay for Media
Start-up.
#### 4.2.1.9 Device information
Clause 10.2.10 in TS 26.247 [7] defines the metric for playout delay for
device information.
### 4.2.2 Quality Metrics for Progressive Download
The following metrics shall be supported by progressive download clients
supporting the QoE reporting feature:
\- Average Throughput (Clause 4.2.1.3),
\- Initial Playout Delay (Clause 4.2.1.4),
\- Buffer Level (Clause 4.2.1.5),
\- Play List (Clause 4.2.1.6), and
\- Device information (Clause 4.2.1.9).
### 4.2.3 Quality Metrics for DASH
The following metrics shall be supported by 3GP-DASH clients supporting the
QoE reporting feature:
\- List of Representation Switch Events (Clause 4.2.1.2).
\- Average Throughput (Clause 4.2.1.3).
\- Initial Playout Delay (Clause 4.2.1.4).
\- Buffer Level (Clause 4.2.1.5).
\- Play List (Clause 4.2.1.6).
\- MPD Information (Clause 4.2.1.7).
\- Device information (Clause 4.2.1.9).
The \@metrics attribute contains a list of quality metric keys listing all
metrics that the DASH shall collect and report.
The semantics of the attributes within the **Metrics** element are provided in
Table 1. The XML-syntax of a **Metrics** element is provided in Table 2.
Table 1: Semantics of Metrics element
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Element | Use | Des | | | | | or | | cription | | | | | A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | Name | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | **M | | DASH | | | | | etrics** | | metric | | | | | | | element | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | \ | M | This | | | | | @metrics | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | lists | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metrics | | | | | | | (as a | | | | | | | list of | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | keys as | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 4.2.1.1, | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | eparated | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | whi | | | | | | | tespace) | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | report. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Certain | | | | | | | keys | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | ecifying | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | interval | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | which a | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | derived | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | pot | | | | | | | entially | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | rameters | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | trolling | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | metrics. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | ameters, | | | | | | | if any, | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | enthesis | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | the key | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | their | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | emantics | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 4.2.1.1 | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | finition | | | | | | | itself. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | * | 0...N | When | | | | | _Range_ _| | sp | | | | | | | ecified, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the time | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | quested. | | | | | | | When not | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | whole | | | | | | | duration | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | content. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | \@s | O | When | | | | | tarttime | | sp | | | | | | | ecified, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | eration. | | | | | | | When not | | | | | | | present, | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | eginning | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | content | | | | | | | cons | | | | | | | umption. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | with | | | | | | |__MPD | | | | | | |__\@type | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "Live\", | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | obtained | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | allclock | | | | | | | time by | | | | | | | adding | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicated | | | | | | | in media | | | | | | | time to | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | |__MPD_ | | | | | | | _\@avail | | | | | | | abilityS | | | | | | | tartTime | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | tribute. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | with | | | | | | |__MPD | | | | | | |__\@type | | | | | | | \"OnD | | | | | | | emand\", | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | time is | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicated | | | | | | | in media | | | | | | | time and | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | relative | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | |_ Peri | | | | | | | odStart _| | | | | | | time of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | MPD. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | \@ | O | When | | | | | duration | | sp | | | | | | | ecified, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | duration | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | metric | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | llection | | | | | | | period. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | value of | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | xpressed | | | | | | | in media | | | | | | | time. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | |__Rep | 1...N | Des | | | | | orting_ * | | criptors | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | about | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | equested | | | | | | | Quality | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | eporting | | | | | | | method | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | formats, | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | uxiliary | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | eporting | | | | | | | method | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | format. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Legend: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > For | | | | | | | > att | | | | | | | ributes: | | | | | | | > M=Ma | | | | | | | ndatory, | | | | | | | > O=O | | | | | | | ptional, | | | | | | | > OD= | | | | | | | Optional | | | | | | | > with | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Default | | | | | | | > Value, | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | CM=Condi | | | | | | | tionally | | | | | | | > Ma | | | | | | | ndatory. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > For | | | | | | | > e | | | | | | | lements: | | | | | | | > \ | | | | | | | ...\ | | | | | | | > (N=un | | | | | | | bounded) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Elements | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | bold; | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | tributes | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | non-bold | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | preceded | | | | | | | with an | | | | | | | @. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 2: XML-Syntax of Metrics element
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \ | | | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## 4.3 QoE metrics for MTSI
## 4.3.1 Metrics Definition
An MTSI client supporting the QoE metrics feature shall support the reporting
of the metrics in this clause. The metrics are valid for speech, video and
text media, and are calculated for each measurement resolution interval
\"Measure-Resolution\". They are reported to the server according to the
measurement reporting interval \"Sending-Rate\" and after the end of the
session.
### 4.3.1.1 Corruption duration metric
Clause 16.2.1 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for corruption duration.
### 4.3.1.2 Successive loss of RTP packets
Clause 16.2.2 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for successive loss of RTP
packets.
### 4.3.1.3 Frame rate
Clause 16.2.3 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for frame rate.
### 4.3.1.4 Jitter duration
Clause 16.2.4 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for jitter duration.
### 4.3.1.5 Sync loss duration
Clause 16.2.5 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for sync loss duration.
### 4.3.1.6 Round-trip time
Clause 16.2.6 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for round-trip time.
### 4.3.1.7 Average codec bitrate
Clause 16.2.7 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for average codec bitrate.
### 4.3.1.8 Codec information
Clause 16.2.8 in TS 26.114 [8] defines the metric for codec information.
#