# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies use cases, requirements and procedures for
management capabilities of 5G networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.533: \" Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MnS Management Service
# 4 Heartbeat
## 4.1 Overview
The communication between Management Service (MnS) producers and MnS consumers
shall be monitored, and communication link breaks between them shall be
discovered by MnS consumers as early as possible. The behaviour of the MnS
consumers, after detection of communication failure, is outside the scope of
the present document.
## 4.2 Specification level requirements
### 4.2.1 Use cases
#### 4.2.1.1 Configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To configure the | | | | periodicity at which | | | | the management service | | | | producer shall emit | | | | heartbeat notifications | | | | to its authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The periodicity | | | | requested by the | | | | management service | | | | consumer has a valid | | | | value. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the | | | | management service | | | | producer to set the | | | | periodicity at which it | | | | shall emit heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1** | The management service | | | | producer receives the | | | | request and sets its | | | | internal countdown | | | | timer to a value (which | | | | can be zero) equal to | | | | the periodicity | | | | requested by the | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2** | The management service | | | | producer sends a | | | | heartbeat notification | | | | to all authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer(s), provided | | | | they previously | | | | subscribed to heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The notification | | | | periodicity has been | | | | configured according to | | | | the management service | | | | consumer request. | | | | | | | | A heartbeat | | | | notification is sent | | | | out to all authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-2. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 4.2.1.2 Requesting immediate heartbeat notification
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To trigger the emission | | | | of an immediate | | | | heartbeat notification | | | | by the management | | | | service producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The soliciting | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the | | | | management service | | | | producer to emit | | | | immediately a heartbeat | | | | notification. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1** | The management service | | | | producer receives the | | | | request and sends | | | | immediately a heartbeat | | | | notification to all | | | | authorized management | | | | service consumer(s) who | | | | had previously | | | | subscribed to heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | | | | | | | The management service | | | | producer countdown | | | | timer is not impacted. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The immediate heartbeat | | | | notification has been | | | | emitted according to | | | | the soliciting | | | | management service | | | | consumer request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-2. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 4.2.1.3 Emitting periodic heartbeat notifications
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To send periodic heartbeat notifications at the periodicity requested
by the management service consumer.
**Actors and Roles** An authorized producer of the management service.
**Telecom resources** The management service consumer.
**Assumptions** The heartbeat notification periodicity has been configured
according to the management service consumer request. Configuring heartbeat
notification periodicity
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** The internal countdown timer managed by the management service
producer has reached the value 0.
**Step 1** The management service producer sends a heartbeat notification to
all authorized management service consumer(s), provided they previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications.
**Step 2** The management service producer resets its internal countdown timer
to the value of the heartbeat notification periodicity. Configuring heartbeat
notification periodicity
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The periodic heartbeat notification has been emitted to
all authorized management service consumer(s) at the requested periodicity.
**Traceability** REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-1.
* * *
### 4.2.2 Requirements
#### 4.2.2.1 Requirements for controlling heartbeat
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-1: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to read the heartbeat period.
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-2: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to set the heartbeat period.
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-3: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to request the emission of an immediate
heartbeat notification.
#### 4.2.2.2 Requirements for notifying heartbeat
REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-1: The management service provider shall have the capability
to send periodic heartbeat notifications to its authorized consumer at the
frequency specified by the management service consumer.
REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-2: The management service provider shall have the capability
to send immediate heartbeat notifications to its authorized consumer, upon
request from the management service consumer.
## 4.3 Procedures for heartbeat
### 4.3.1 Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
Figure 4.3.1-1 illustrates the procedure for configuring the periodicity of
heartbeat notifications using operations and notifications of the provisioning
MnS (see clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.8361111111111112in"}
Figure 4.3.1-1: Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
### 4.3.2 Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
Figure 4.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat
notification using operations and notifications of the provisioning MnS (see
clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.6166666666666667in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1: Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
### 4.3.3 Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
Figure 4.3.3-1 illustrates the procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat
notifications using operations and notifications of the provisioning MnS (see
clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="4.219444444444444in" height="3.7715277777777776in"}
Figure 4.3.3-1: Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
# 5 Discovery of Management Services
## 5.1 Overview
To enable communication between MnS consumers and MnS producers, MnS consumers
need a mechanism to discover MnS producers that are available in the 3GPP
management system, and their management capabilities.
To this end, MnS producers need to register themselves with their management
capabilities in the 3GPP management system. The data describing a MnS producer
and their capabilities is called MnS information or MnS profile. The complete
profile or parts thereof is registered in the 3GPP management system. In case
registered MnS information changes, the 3GPP management system needs to be
updated as well and MnS consumers of the modified MnS producer should be
informed.
MnS consumers wishing to discover MnS producers might have different
questions. For example, a consumer may wish to know which MnS producers manage
a certain geographical area or civic location. Or, after receiving an alarm
notification specifying that a specific NF is alarmed, they may wish to know
the MnS producers where they can request management data from that NF or to
retrieve the configuration of that NF.
## 5.2 Specification level requirements
### 5.2.1 Use cases
#### 5.2.1.1 Adding a new management service producer
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Add a new MnS producer | | | | to a 3GPP management | | | | system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network operator. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | New MnS producer. | | | | | | | | MnS discovery service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | New MnS producer is | | | | authorized to register | | | | the MnS information for | | | | a management service to | | | | MnS discovery service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network operator wishes | | | | to add a new MnS | | | | producer to the 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network operator adds | | | | the new MnS producer to | | | | the 3GPP management | | | | system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network operator | | | | activates the new MnS | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | New MnS producer sends | | | | a request to MnS | | | | discovery service | | | | producer to register | | | | the MnS information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer stores the MnS | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer sends | | | | confirmation to the new | | | | MnS producer that the | | | | MnS information has | | | | been registered. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the mandatory | | | | steps fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer has stored the | | | | MnS information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-DMS-CON-1 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Removing a management service producer
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Remove an existing MnS | | | | producer in a 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network operator. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | MnS producer. | | | | | | | | MnS discovery service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | - | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer has stored the | | | | MnS information for the | | | | MnS producer. | | | | | | | | The network operator | | | | has decided that it is | | | | safe to remove the MnS | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network operator wishes | | | | to remove an existing | | | | MnS producer in the | | | | 3GPP management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network operator orders | | | | removal of the MnS | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | MnS producer sends a | | | | request to MnS | | | | discovery service | | | | producer to remove the | | | | MnS information related | | | | to the MnS Producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer removes the | | | | MnS information related | | | | to the MnS Producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer sends | | | | confirmation to the MnS | | | | producer that the MnS | | | | information has been | | | | removed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the mandatory | | | | steps fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer has removed | | | | the MnS information | | | | related to the MnS | | | | Producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-DMS-CON-1 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.2.1.3 Adding a new management service consumer
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Add a new MnS consumer | | | | of an MnS provided by a | | | | 3GPP management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network operator. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | New MnS consumer. | | | | | | | | MnS discovery service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | New MnS consumer is | | | | authorized to obtain | | | | the MnS information for | | | | the available | | | | management service(s) | | | | from MnS discovery | | | | service producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | MnS information exists | | | | in MnS discovery | | | | service producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Network operator wishes | | | | to add a new MnS | | | | consumer of an MnS | | | | provided by a 3GPP | | | | management system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Network operator adds | | | | the new MnS consumer to | | | | the 3GPP management | | | | system or to an | | | | external system. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | Network operator | | | | configures the new MnS | | | | consumer with the | | | | address of the MnS | | | | discovery service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | Network operator | | | | activates the new MnS | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | For each MnS that the | | | | new MnS consumer wishes | | | | to consume, the | | | | following steps are | | | | repeated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4.1 (M)** | New MnS consumer sends | | | | a request to MnS | | | | discovery service | | | | producer to read the | | | | MnS information for | | | | relevant management | | | | services. The request | | | | may optionally request | | | | that the MnS | | | | information is filtered | | | | by MnS type (e.g. | | | | provisioning MnS, fault | | | | supervision MnS, | | | | performance assurance | | | | MnS) and description of | | | | MnS components. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4.2 (M)** | MnS discovery service | | | | producer reads the | | | | stored MnS information | | | | of the management | | | | service(s) and decides | | | | if the MnS data of the | | | | management service(s) | | | | can satisfy the | | | | received request, then | | | | sends the relevant MnS | | | | information of the | | | | management service(s) | | | | to the new MnS | | | | Consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4.3 (M)** | New MnS consumer reads | | | | the MnS information to | | | | check if a suitable | | | | version of the desired | | | | MnS is available. If | | | | more than one suitable | | | | version exists, the new | | | | MnS consumer selects | | | | the management service | | | | with the highest | | | | suitable version of the | | | | MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4.4 (M)** | New MnS consumer reads | | | | the MnS information for | | | | the selected management | | | | service to find details | | | | of the MnS producer for | | | | example root URL for | | | | MnS operations and root | | | | DN for MnS objects. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the mandatory | | | | steps fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | New MnS consumer is | | | | ready to use the | | | | selected version for | | | | each needed MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-DMS-CON-2 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
NOTE: MnS information refer to the information used by the consumer to
discover the producers of specific Management Services and to derive the
addresses of the Management Service.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
**REQ-DMS-1:** The 3GPP management system shall provide capabilities allowing
MnS producers to register their management capabilities (including the
endpoint address) at MnS discovery service producer for use by MnS consumers
wishing to interact with these MnS producers.
**REQ-DMS-2:** The 3GPP management system shall provide capabilities allowing
MnS consumers to retrieve the management capabilities registered at MnS
discovery service producer by MnS producers.
**REQ-DMS-3:** The 3GPP management system shall provide capabilities allowing
to discover MnS producers that are managing a specified managed entity.
**REQ-DMS-4:** The 3GPP management system shall provide capabilities allowing
to discover the managed entities a MnS producer is responsible for.
# 6 Managing management data
## 6.1 Producing and reporting management data
### 6.1.1 Description
Management data is referring to data produced by radio access network
functions, core network functions or management functions and used for
management purposes. Management data specified by 3GPP for 5G management is
classified into 5G performance measurements as defined by TS 28.552 [4], 5G
end to end key performance indicators as defined by TS 28.554 [5] and
Trace/MDT data as defined by TS 32.422 [6]. The combined performance
measurements and key performance indicators are also called performance
metrics.
Management data is produced on request. Therefore, the 3GPP management system
needs to enable a data consumer to request management data to be produced. The
data requester needs to specify the type of data to be produced as well as the
radio access network functions, core network functions and management
functions where the data shall be produced. The target managed object
instances can be identified in multiple ways:
\- The requester can specify the target managed object instances based on the
managed object tree (as defined in the 3GPP Network Resource Models)
representing the network and management functions. The simplest approach is to
directly identify the managed object instances where data shall be produced.
More sophisticated approaches allow to specify one or more subtrees where data
shall be produced and may allow also to specify managed object classes to
select only object instances of specific classes.
\- The requester can specify one or multiple of the following selection
criteria. The system needs to translate this information into the target
managed object instances. The selection criteria need to be deterministic in
such a way that the target node(s) can be selected unambiguously.
\- Area of interest: In a big network, it makes sense to specify a limited
area for which data shall be produced. The area of interest can be expressed
for example with a geographical area, one or several cells or one or several
tracking areas. The target managed object instances represent network
functions serving that area of interest. Geographical areas can be expressed
for example with multiple longitude-latitude pairs that define a convex
polygon. In the radio domain the geographical area needs to be mapped to the
coverage area of cells supported by RAN NE(s). The managed object instances
(e.g. NRCellCU, GNBDUFunction) providing service to these cells can be
identified as target managed object instances. Of course the coverage area of
the target cell(s) will usually not exactly map to the described shape of the
geographical area because, on the one side, the coverage area of cell has no
sharp borders due to fast fading effects, on the other side, the coverage area
of cells may vary slightly e.g. due to adaptation of the antenna downtilt
angle or beamforming configurations. For the mapping between the geographical
area and the corresponding managed object instances the cell coverage status
at the time of the request shall be used. Later changes affecting the cell
coverage shall not be reflected for the mapping.
\- Domain e.g RAN, CN: A consumer might only be interested in analysing and
understanding the performance of a particular domain like RAN or Core e.g in
case of recurrent issues, a consumer may want to have understanding of a
particular domain only for further actions. In such a scenario, it should be
possible to indicate the domain from where consumer wants measurements for its
usage.
\- Traffic type e.g user plane or control plane: 5G brings clear separation
(CUPS) of user plane and control plane in a network, a consumer may leverage
it to identify target managed object instances to have measurements from. For
example, the measurement report may be expected from user plane nodes only.
\- Slice type e.g eMBB, URLLC: Consumer may mention a particular slice type
(eMBB, URLLC, mIoT, V2X, HMTC) as the selection criteria. It may help in
narrowing down the target managed object instances, which are part of provided
slice type(s).
This MnS to request management data in a simple way shall not be exposed at
any network function.
The management data can be requested according to a certain time scheduler.
The consumer can e.g. specify a start and stop time or can request for data at
specific days of a week or specific hours of a day..
After production the data needs to be reported to the data consumers.
Reporting can be based on multiple reporting methods such as file or
streaming. Data reporting needs to be requested by the data consumer. The
requestor needs to specify the control parameters for reporting such as the
reporting method and the address the data shall be delivered to.
Depending on access rights and security settings, data consumers may be
subject to restrictions regarding the data they can access.
Data is always produced in some context. The data describing this context is
called context data. Context data contains information on all interrelated
conditions in which the management data is produced. This includes for example
the configuration of the measured network functions, information on the
network entity where the network function is running such as vendor name or
software version, but also alarms associated to the network function or load
conditions.
Data consumers processing managemen data in an effort to accomplish some task
typically benefit when taking context data into account. For that reason data
consumers should be able to obtain the context data for the management data
they obtain. However, access to certain management data does not automaticlly
imply access to all context data. Access to management data and access to
context data may be subject to different data security and data protection
considerations.
### 6.1.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 6.1.3 Requirements
REQ-MDMPR-1: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request management data (specified by 3GPP) to be produced.
REQ-MDM-PR-2: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request management data specified by 3GPP to be produced by
certain managed object instance(s) only. The selection criteria to determine
the managed object instance(s) shall be deterministic in such a way that the
target node(s) can be selected unambiguously. The managed object instances can
be targeted based on:
\- Area of interest (e.g. list of cells, list of tracking areas or
geographical area).
\- Domain (CN or RAN).
\- User plane or control plane.
\- Slice type (e.g. eMBB, URLLC, mIoT, V2X, HMTC).
The MnS to request management data specified by 3GPP in a simple way shall not
be exposed at any network function.
The mapping of geographical area to corresponding managed object instances
reflects the cell coverage status at the time of the request.
REQ-MDM-PR-3: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request management data specified by 3GPP to be produced according
to a certain time scheduler.
REQ-MDMPR-CON-4: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request management data (specified by 3GPP) to be reported to the
requesting or another authorized data consumer.
REQ-MDMPR-5: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to obtain context data for management data. Access to management data
does not imply access to context data. Different data privacy considerations
may apply.
NOTE: The term \"management data specified by 3GPP\" relates to
\- 5G performance measurements as defined by TS 28.552 [4]
\- 5G end to end key performance indicators as defined by TS 28.554 [5], and
\- Trace/MDT data as defined by TS 32.422 [6].
## 6.2 Coordinating management data production
### 6.2.1 Description
Many consumers can request network or management functions to produce
management data. In this context it is beneficial to coordinate data requests
at the management level to optimize management data production.
### 6.2.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 6.2.3 Requirements
REQ-MDMC-CON-1: The 3GPP management system shall coordinate requests from
several data consumers to avoid producing multiple times the same data at a
certain point of time.
Editor\'s note: It is tbc what exactly is \"same data\".
## 6.3 Storing management data
### 6.3.1 Description
Storing management data enables reusage of management data for multiple
management purposes.
For example, AI/ML models need input data collected over a certain period of
time for training purposes. A specific set of collected data may serve
different purposes and can therefore be input to multiple AI/ML services. For
example, management data collected in a geographical area may be used also for
another geographical area when the scenarios in the areas are statistically
similar.
Another use case for storing produced data is related to the fact that
multiple sets of training data from similar scenarios are typically required.
For example, one set of data produced for the rush hour in a subway station on
a single weekday is typically not enough for profiling. Many sets produced on
many workdays are required.
Stored data is useful when management functions can discover which data has
been produced and stored in the past to check if the currently needed data is
already available.
### 6.3.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 6.3.3 Requirements
REQ-MDMS-CON-1: The 3GPP management system shall support the storing of
produced management data.
REQ-MDMS-CON-2: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to discover stored management data.
REQ-MDMS-CON-3: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to retrieve stored management data.
## 6.4 Managing external management data
### 6.4.1 Description
Management data which is specified by 3GPP (clause 6.1.1) can be enriched by
additional data not specified by 3GPP. This so-called external management data
can be produced by data sources of different nature (e.g. sensors) with
different formats.
External management data can be used for example as additional input for
network optimization and prediction.
The management system should be able to manage this kind of data. That means
data consumers should be able to request external management data to be
produced and reported. The management system should provide support for
storing it.
The definition of external data sources and the data formats they use is out
of scope of this specification.
The target is to define generic management mechanisms that can cope with any
kind of external data sources and data formats.
### 6.4.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 6.4.3 Requirements
REQ-MDMED-CON-1: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request external management data to be produced.
REQ-MDMED-CON-2: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to request external management data to be reported to the requesting
or another authorized data consumer.
REQ-MDMED-CON-3: The 3GPP management system shall support the storing of
produced external management data.
REQ-MDMED-CON-4: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to discover stored external management data.
REQ-MDMED-CON-5: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to retrieve stored external management data.
NOTE: The term \"external management data\" relates to data not specified by
3GPP.
## 6.5 Discovery of management data
### 6.5.1 Description
Discovery of management data mechanism allows MnS consumers to discover what
management data can be produced by the 3GPP management system without direct
involvement of those MnS services producing the data, which can be time and
resource consuming process.
For this mechanism to work MnS producers as entities producing data, need to
register what data they can produce by adding a corresponding record in the
3GPP management system.
NOTE: The term \"management data produced by 3GPP management system\" relates
to
\- 5G performance measurements as defined by TS 28.552 [4]
\- 5G end to end key performance indicators as defined by TS 28.554 [5], and
\- Trace/MDT data as defined by TS 32.422 [6].
### 6.5.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 6.5.3 Requirements
REQ-DMSDIS-CON-1: The 3GPP management system shall enable an authorized data
consumer to discover what management data can be produced by 3GPP management
system.
# 7 File management
## 7.1 File transfer
### 7.1.1 Description
File management deals with transferring files between MnS producers and MnS
consumers.
Existing file transfer protocols are used. These protocols need to comply to
requirements specified in this clause.
### 7.1.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 7.1.3 Requirements
REQ-FMG-1: The file transfer protocol shall preserve the formatting of the
file during exchange.
REQ-FMG-2: The file transfer protocol shall preserve the encoding of the file
during exchange.
REQ-FMG-3: The MnS producer shall support at least one of the following file
transfer protocols: SFTP, FTPES, HTTPS.
REQ-FMG-4: The MnS consumer shall use the file transfer protocol supported by
the MnS producer.
## 7.2 File retrieval from a MnS producer by a MnS consumer
### 7.2.1 Description
File retrieval is when the MnS consumer retrieves (gets) a file from the MnS
producer. Either the MnS consumer retrieves a file from the MnS producer
because the MnS consumer receives a file ready notification from the MnS
producer or the MnS consumer reads the list of available (ready) files on the
MnS producer and decides to retrieve an available file.
### 7.2.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 7.2.3 Requirements
REQ-FMR-1: The MnS producer shall support the capability allowing a MnS
consumer to retrieve (get) a file from the MnS producer.
REQ-FMR-2: The MnS producer shall support the capability allowing a MnS
consumer to retrieve the list of files available for transfer from the MnS
producer.
REQ-FMR-3: The MnS producer shall support the capability to inform a MnS
consumer about files that are available for retrieval.
REQ-FMR-4: The MnS producer shall support the capability to inform a MnS
consumer about errors that occurred during the preparation of a file.
REQ-FMR-5: The information transferred to a MnS consumer about an available
file shall allow associating the file to the process on the MnS producer that
generated the file, if any such process exists and has an identifier.
REQ-FMR-6: The MnS producer shall support the capability allowing a MnS
consumer to indicate to the MnS producer, that the MnS consumer does not need
a file anymore, such that the MnS producer hides the file in responses to
subsequent read requests or decide to delete it altogether.
## 7.3 File push from a MnS producer to a MnS consumer
### 7.3.1 Description
For file push, the MnS producer pushes a file to the MnS consumer or a
designated file server. Either the MnS producer pushes the file because the
MnS consumer requests the MnS producer to push the file or the MnS consumer
configures the MnS Producer to push a file based on an event occuring on the
MnS producer, such as the availability of a file.
### 7.3.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 7.3.3 Requirements
REQ-FMP-1: The MnS producer shall support the capability to push a file to a
MnS consumer or a designated file server when triggered by a MnS consumer.
REQ-FMP-2: The MnS producer shall support the capability allowing a MnS
consumer to trigger the MnS producer to push a file from the MnS consumer or a
designated file server.
REQ-FMP-3: The MnS producer shall support the capability to inform the MnS
consumer, that has triggered a file push, or any other MnS consumer about the
progress of that file push.
REQ-FMP-4: The MnS producer shall support the capability to push a file to the
MnS consumer or a designated file server when configured by a MnS consumer.
REQ-FMP-5: The MnS producer shall support the capability for a MnS consumer to
configure the MnS producer to push a file to the MnS consumer or a designated
file server based on an event occurring on the MnS producer.
REQ-FMP-6: The MnS producer shall support the capability to inform the MnS
consumer, that has configured a file push, or any other MnS consumer about the
progress of that file push.
## 7.4 File download from a MnS consumer to a MnS producer
### 7.4.1 Description
File download is when the MnS producer gets a file from the MnS consumer or a
designated file server because the MnS consumer requests the MnS producer to
download the file.
### 7.4.2 Use cases
This clause describes the benefits of the subject capability.
Editor\'s note: This clause will be extended with the benefits of the subject
capability.
### 7.4.3 Requirements
REQ-FMD-1: The MnS producer shall support the capability to download a file
from a MnS consumer or a designated file server when triggered by a MnS
consumer.
REQ-FMD-2: The MnS producer shall support the capability allowing a MnS
consumer to trigger the MnS producer to download a file from the MnS consumer
or a designated file server.
REQ-FMD-3: The MnS producer shall support the capability to inform the MnS
consumer that has triggered a file download, or any other consumer about the
progress of that file download.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Heartbeat PlantUML source code
# A.1 Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
configuring heartbeat notification periodicity, as depicted by Figure 4.3.1-1:
\@startuml
title \"Configuring heartbeat notification periodicity\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as CONS
participant \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
CONS -> PROV: modifyMOIAttributes (\'heartbeatNtfPeriod\',
newHeartbeatPeriodValue)
rnote over PROV
Internal Countdown Timer := newHeartbeatPeriodValue
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
note left
Provided he previously
subscribed to heartbeat
notifications
end note
rnote over PROV
Start countdown immediately
endrnote
\@enduml
# A.2 Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
requesting immediate heartbeat notification, as depicted by Figure 4.3.2-1:
\@startuml
title \"Requesting immediate heartbeat notification\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as CONS
participant \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
collections \"Other MnS Consumers\" as OTHER
CONS -> PROV: modifyMOIAttributes (\'triggerHeartbeatNtf\', TRUE)
rnote over PROV
Send immediate heartbeat notification
to all MnS Consumers who previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
PROV -> OTHER: notifyHeartbeat notification
rnote over PROV
triggerHeartbeatNtf:= FALSE
endrnote
\@enduml
# A.3 Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
notifying periodic heartbeat notifications, as depicted by Figure 4.3.3-1:
\@startuml
title \"Notifying periodic heartbeat notifications\"
actor \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
collections \"MnS Consumers\" as CONS
rnote over PROV
Send heartbeat notification to all
MnS Consumers who previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
rnote over PROV
Reinitialize its internal countdown
timer to the value of heartbeatNtfPeriod
endrnote
rnote over PROV
Start countdown
endrnote
\@enduml
#