# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The management of the 3GPP network is provided by management services. The
service based architecture and interfaces support various management services
of vastly different requirements on network configuration, network
performance, and network fault supervision. The 3GPP network management
architecture evolves supporting operators\' design and management of their
service oriented networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the network management and orchestration
architecture SBMA for 3GPP networks including network slicing. The use cases
and requirements are specified in TS 28.530 [3].
SBMA applies to 5G.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration of networks and network
slicing; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network
Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Performance
measurements and assurance data\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; 5G End to
end Key Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM); Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks;
Provisioning; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Management services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\"
[11] 3GPP TS 28.510; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.511; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.512; \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.513: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.515; \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.516: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.517: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.518: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 28.520: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.521: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 28.523: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[24] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Procedures\".
[25] 3GPP TS 28.527: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
2\".
[26] 3GPP TS 28.528: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage
3\".
[27] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology
for Main Concepts in NFV V1.3.1 (2018-01)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[29] ETSI GS ZSM 002: \"Zero-touch Network and Service Management (ZSM);
Reference Architecture V.1.1 (2019-08)\".
[30] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[31] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G system\".
[32] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[33] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
[34] IETF RFC 4253: \"The Secure Shell (SSH) Transport Layer Protocol\".
[35] 3GPP TS 28.100: \"Management and orchestration; Levels of autonomous
network\".
[36] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[37] 3GPP TS 28.535: \"Management services for communication service
assurance; Requirements \".
[38] 3GPP TS 28.536: \"Management services for communication service
assurance; Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[39] 3GPP TS 28.537: \"Management and orchestration; Management
capabilities\".
[40] 3GPP TS 28.538: \"Management and orchestration; Edge Computing
Management\".
[41] 3GPP TS 28.540: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 1\".
[42] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[43] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace concepts and requirements\".
[44] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management \".
[45] 3GPP TS 32.423: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace;Trace data definition and management\".
[46] 3GPP TS 28.312: \"Management and orchestration; Intent driven management
services for mobile networks\".
[47] 3GPP TS 28.557: \"Management and orchestration; Management of Non-Public
Networks (NPN); Stage 1 and stage 2\".
[48] 3GPP TS 28.404: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[49] 3GPP TS 28.405: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Control and configuration\".
[50] 3GPP TS 28.406: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Information definition and transport\".
[51] 3GPP TS 28.631: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[52] 3GPP TS 28.632: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[53] 3GPP TS 28.633: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\".
[54] 3GPP TS 28.623: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[55] 3GPP TS 32.130: \"Telecommunication management; Network sharing; Concepts
and requirements\".
[56] 3GPP TS 28.310: \"Management and orchestration; Energy efficiency of
5G\".
[57] 3GPP TS 28.104: \"Management and orchestration; Management Data
Analytics\".
[58] 3GPP TS 28.313: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks\".
[59] 3GPP TS 28.314: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect;
Concepts and requirements\".
[60] 3GPP TS 28.315: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect;
Procedure flows\".
[61] 3GPP TS 28.316: \"Management and orchestration; Plug and Connect; Data
formats\".
[62] 3GPP TS 28.555: \"Management and orchestration; Network policy management
for 5G mobile networks; Stage 1\".
[63] 3GPP TS 28.556: \"Management and orchestration; Network policy management
for 5G mobile networks; Stage 2 and stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or NFV-MANO [27].
**Exposure governance management function** : Management Function entity with
the role of management service exposure governance.
**Management Service (MnS):** set of offered management capabilities.
**Management Function (MnF):** logical entity playing the roles of Management
Service consumer and/or Management Service producer.
**Network Function (NF):** defined in TS 23.501[31].
NOTE: In 3GPP NRM, the Network Functions are modeled using ManagedFunction
IOCs (e.g. AMFFunction) and its sub-classes.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], TS 28.530 [3], in NFV-MANO [27] and the following apply. An
abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
LCM Lifecycle Management
MDAS Management Data Analytics Service
MnF Management Function
MnS Management Service
NF Network Function
NFV-MANO Network Functions Virtualisation Management and Orchestration
PM Performance Management
SBMA Service Based Management Architecture
# 4 Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA)
## 4.1 Management Services (MnS)
The fundamental building block of the Service Based Management Architecture
(SBMA) is the Management Service (MnS). A MnS is a set of offered capabilities
for management and orchestration of network and services. The entity producing
an MnS is called MnS producer. The entity consuming an MnS is called MnS
consumer. An MnS provided by an MnS producer can be consumed by any entity
with appropriate authorisation and authentication.
An MnS producer offers its services via a standardized service interface
composed of individually specified MnS components.
Figure 4.1.1: MnS producer and MnS consumer
## 4.2 MnS components
### 4.2.1 Introduction
A MnS is specified using different independent components. A concrete MnS is
composed of at least two of these components. Three different component types
are defined, called MnS component type A, MnS component type B and MnS
component type C. These components are defined in the following clauses.
### 4.2.2 MnS component type A
The MnS component type A is a group of management operations and/or
notifications that is agnostic with regard to the entities managed. The
operations and notifications as such are hence not involving any information
related to the managed network. These operations and notifications are called
generic or network agnostic.
For example, operations for creating, reading, updating and deleting managed
object instances, where the managed object instance to be manipulated is
specified only in the signature of the operation, are generic.
### 4.2.3 Management information
#### 4.2.3.1 MnS component type B
MnS component type B refers to management information represented by
information models representing the managed entities. A MnS component type B
is also called Network Resource Model (NRM).
MnS component type B examples are:
1) Network resource models as defined in TS 28.622 [32].
2) Network resource models as defined in TS 28.541 [4]
#### 4.2.3.2 MnS component type C
MnS component type C is performance information of the managed entity and
fault information of the managed entity.
The following are examples of Management service component type C:
1\. Alarm information as defined in TS 28.532 [9] and TS 28.545 [28].
2\. Performance data as defined in TS 28.552 [5], TS 28.554 [6] and TS 32.425
[7].
### 4.2.4 MnS producer profile
A MnS producer is described by a set of meta data called MnS producer profile.
The profile holds information about the supported MnS components and their
version numbers. This may include also information about support of optional
features. For example, a read operation on a complete subtree of managed
object instances may support applying filters on the scoped set of objects as
optional feature. In this case the MnS profile should include the information
if filtering is supported.
## 4.3 Combination of MnS components
A MnS is composed by a MnS component type A and
\- a MnS component type B, or
\- a MnS component type B and a MnS component type C.
The instances of management services carry information about specified
management service components in the metadata attributes. Figure
4.3.1.illustrates examples of management service instances with various
management service components of type A, type B and type C:
{width="5.720833333333333in" height="3.7805555555555554in"}
Figure 4.3.1: Example of Management Service and component type A, B and C
## 4.4 Management capability exposure governance
As precondition for Management Service exposure governance offer, producer of
management capability exposure governance should have access to:
An association between information about specified management service
components and instances of management services.
NOTE: The detail creation of an association is left for implementation and out
of scope of 3GPP standardization.
Management capability exposure governance provides exposure governance on
basic elements of management function service based interface:
1) Management service component type A
2) Management service component type B
3) Management service component type C
As described in Figure 4.4.1 left hand part, when there is a Management
Service A exposure without exposure governance, Management Service A Consumer
(e.g. 3^rd^ party) can access all management capability offered by Management
Service A Producer.
As described in Figure 4.4.1 right hand part, when Management Service A is
exposed with applied exposure governance it becomes Management Service A\'.
Management Service A\' Consumer can access Management Service A\' after
following steps:
\- Management Service A, exposed by Management Service A Producer, is consumed
by Management Service A Consumer;
\- Management Service B, exposed by Management Service B Producer, is consumed
by Management Service B Consumer (e.g. operator) who is authorized to access
offered management capabilities exposure governance(s);
\- Management Service B Consumer (e.g. operator) request a specified exposure
governance on Management Service A;
\- Management Service A\' Producer produces Management Service A\' based on
applied exposure governance on consumed Management Service A.
NOTE: The Management Service A Consumer, the Management Service A\' Producer
and Management Service B Producer can be represented as a single Management
Function e.g. a single MnF).
{width="4.072916666666667in" height="4.239583333333333in"}
Figure 4.4.1: Management capability exposure governance applied on exposed
Management Service A
## 4.5 Management Function (MnF) concept
A Management Function (MnF) is a logical entity playing the roles of MnS
consumer and/or MnS producer.
A Management Service produced by MnF may have multiple consumers. The MnF may
consume multiple Management Services from one or multiple Management Service
producers. An example of a MnF playing both roles (Management Service producer
and consumer) illustrated in the figure 4.5.1 below.
{width="3.8534722222222224in" height="2.2493055555555554in"}
Figure 4.5.1: Example of Management Function and Management Services
Management Function can be deployed as a separate entity or embedded in
Network Function to provide MnS(s). Following figure 4.5.2 shows an example
(on the left) which MnF deployed as a separate entity to provide MnS(s) and
another example (on the right) which MnF is embedded in Network Function to
provide MnS(s):
{width="3.9194444444444443in" height="1.9395833333333334in"}
Figure 4.5.2 Examples of MnS deployment scenario
Management Functions may interact by consuming Management Services produced by
other Management Functions. The figure 4.6.2 below illustrates multiple
scenarios:
\- MnF1 produces Management Service MnS-a;
\- MnF2 consumes Management Service MnS-a produced by MnF1 and produces
Management Services MnS-b and MnS-c;
\- MnF3 produces Management Service MnS-c;
\- MnF4 consumes Management Service MnS-b produced by the MnF2;
\- MnF5 consumes Management Services MnS-c produced by the MnF2 and MnF3, and
in turn produces the same Management Service MnS-c. The behaviour of MnF5 may
be seen as aggregation of Management Services MnS-c.
{width="2.0208333333333335in" height="3.5104166666666665in"}
Figure 4.5.2: An example of interactions between Management Functions
NOTE: The specification of a MnF is out of scope of the present document.
## 4.6 Management data analytics capability
Mobile networks have the capability to support a wide variety of services and
requirements. This, along with increasing flexibility of the network may
present management and operational challenges and complexities. The management
system can therefore benefit from management data analytics services for
improving networks performance and efficiency to accommodate and support the
diversity of services and requirements. The management data analytics utilize
the network management data collected from the network (including e.g.
service, slicing and/or network functions related data) and make the
corresponding analytics based on the collected information. The information
provided by PM analytics can be used to optimize network performance, and the
information provided by FM analytics can be used to predict and prevent
failures of the network. MDAF can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g. RAN, CN, network slice subnet) and/or in a
centralized manner (e.g. at a PLMN level).
{width="4.251388888888889in" height="1.7756944444444445in"}
Figure: 4.6.1: Service based architecture for management data analytics
## 4.7 Management service discovery
### 4.7.1 Introduction
The MnS consumer in an operator's management system need to discover the
availability of MnS instances provided by other MnS producer(s). In order to
enable the MnS instances to be discovered by MnS consumer, the MnS needs to be
discoverable to the operator's management system when the MnS instance become
operative.
### 4.7.2 Void
### 4.7.3 MnS discovery service
The MnS discovery service enables MnS consumer to discover management
capabilities of MnS producer(s).
## 4.8 Management capability support in multiple tenant environment
In 3GPP management sytem, tenant represents a group of MnS consumers
associated with the management capabilities they are allowed to access and
consume. The 3GPP management system provides multi-tenancy support, by
associating different tenants with different sets of management capabilities.
Every tenant may be authorized to access and consume those MnSs that the
operator makes available to this tenant based on SLA.
## 4.9 Access control capability
### 4.9.1 Authentication service
Authentication service producer provides identity management capabilities to
provision MnS consumer/producer, group of MnS consumers/producers and
authentication policies for the identities.
Authentication service producer provides capabilities for authentication of
MnS consumer explicitly or implicitly.
NOTE 1: Explicit authentication: MnS consumer interacts directly with
authentication service producer to acquire authentication assertion to
interact with MnS producer or authorization service producer.
NOTE 2: Implicit authentication: MnS consumer interacts indirectly with
authentication via MnS producer, to establish a secure session.
Note 3: Certificate issued by trusted CA is used by MnS consumer/producer to
authenticate the authentication service producer. E.g. a MnS consumer access
the authentication service through Transport Layer Security (TLS) (see [33]),
then the MnS consumer/producer could authenticate the producer through
validating the signature signed with certificate of the producer issued by the
trusted CA.
Note 4: Generally, certificate issued by trusted CA is used by MnS consumer to
authenticate a MnS producer. E.g. when a MnS consumer accesses the MnS through
TLS (see [33]) or SSH (see [34]), the MnS consumer could authenticate the MnS
producer through validating the signature signed with certificate of the
producer issued by the trusted CA.
Authentication Service producer can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g. in RAN, CN, domain) and/or in a centralized
manner (e.g. at a PLMN level).
Note 5: If the MnS consumer and the MnS producer to be accessed are inside the
same domain, Authentication Service producer may be deployed at domain level
to support authenticating the MnS consumer explicitly or implicitly. If the
MnS consumer and the MnS producer to be accessed are in the different domain,
Authentication Service producer is deployed in a centralized manner to support
authenticating the MnS consumer explicitly or implicitly.
Figure 4.9.1-1: Authentication capability on service based architecture
### 4.9.2 Authorization service
Authorization service producer provides management capabilities to provision
access permissions on MnSs for a MnS consumer or a group of MnS consumers.
Authorization service producer provides capabilities to grant permissions to a
MnS consumer explicitly or implicitly.
NOTE 1: Explicit authorization : MnS consumer interacts with authorization
service producer, to acquire access token to interact with MnS Producer. MnS
Producer enforces access control by verifying the access token. A token may
include a list of permissions with conditions and a digital signature signed
by the authorization service producer.
NOTE 2: Implicit authorization : MnS Producer enforces access control using
local policies which might be preconfigured locally or synchronized from
centralized authorization service producer for the current authentication
context.
Authorization Service producer can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g. in RAN, CN, domain) and/or in a centralized
manner (e.g. at a PLMN level). The Centralized Authorization Service producer
can be named as Cross Domain Authorization Service producer.
Note 3: Authorization Service producer may be deployed at domain level to
support access control between MnS consumer and producer inside the same
domain. Specifically, an domain Authorization Service producer may be deployed
together with management service producer. Authorization Service producer is
deployed in a centralized manner to especially to support access control
between MnS consumer and producer from different domains.
Figure 4.9.2-1 Authorization capability on service based architecture
# 5 Architecture reference model
## 5.1 General concepts
### 5.1.1 Management service producers, consumers and exposure
The management services for a mobile network with or without network slicing
may be produced by any entity. For example, it can be a Network Functions
(NF), or network management functions. The entity may provide (produce) such
management services as, for example, the performance management services,
configuration management services and fault supervision services.
The management services can be consumed by another entity, which may in turn
produce (expose) the service to other entities. Figure 5.1.1-1 shows an
example of the management service X which is initially produced by the entity
A which is an NF , then consumed by another entity B which is a network
management function. Then entity B in turn exposes it to the entity C.
Figure 5.1.1-1. Example of producers and consumers of the management service
Figure 5.1.1-2 shows another example of the management service X which is
produced by the entity A which is a NF, then entity B processes the
information and produce management service Y and exposes it to the entity C.
Figure 5.1.1-2. Example of producers and consumers of management services
### 5.1.2 Interactions between management service producer and management
service consumer
The interactions between the management service producer and management
service consumer follows one of the three following paradigms:
\- \"Request-response\": A management service producer is requested by a
management service consumer to invoke an operation, which either performs an
action or provides information or both. The management service producer
provides response based on the request by management service consumer.
Figure 5.1.2.1: Request-response communication paradigm
\- _\"Subscribe-notify\":_ A management service consumer requests a management
service producer to establish a subscription to receive network events via
notifications, under the filter constraint specified in this operation.
> Subscriptions can be created also by other means than by using such
> operation _._
Figure 5.1.2.2: Subscribe-notify communication paradigm
NOTE: Example of a common aspect applicable to all management services is the
use of notifications. For a management service to use notifications the
management service consumer needs a subscription to notifications it is
interested in. The management service consumer requests the creation of a
subscription by sending a subscribe operation to the management service
producer. To cancel a subscription the consumer sends an unsubscribe operation
to the producer.
\- \"Connect-streaming\": A management producer is provided with the address
the management service consumer. The management service producer requests to
establish a connection with the management service consumer for management
data streaming. The management service producer sends the management data,
when they are ready, by streaming to the management service consumer over the
established connection.
Figure 5.1.2.3: Connect-streaming communication paradigm
\- \"Request-response with access control\" in explicit authentication and
authorization mode: An authentication service producer is requested by a
management service consumer for authentication, the authentication service
producer authenticates the management service consumer according to
information in the request, authentication policies and other information
associated to the identity of the management service consumer. After being
successfully authenticated, the management service consumer may send request
to an authorization service producer to get access token for permissions.
After getting access token from an authorization service producer, the
management service consumer sends request to corresponding management service
producers to access management services. The management service producer
provides response to the consumer after verifying the access token. Figure
5.1.1.2-4 depicted typical Request-response communication paradigm with access
control explicit authentication and authorization mode
Figure 5.1.1.2-4: Request-response communication paradigm with access control
(explicit authentication and authorization)
\- \"Request-response with access control\" in implicit authentication and
authorization mode: management service consumer initiates a management session
towards management service producer. Management service producer accesses
authentication service producer to authenticate the management service
consumer according to information in the request, groups and other information
associated to the identity of the management service consumer. After
successfully being authenticated, the management service consumer sends
request to management service producer to access management services,
management service producer enforces access control using local policies
applicable for the current authentication context
> NOTE: If Authentication Service Producer is unavailable, MnS Producer may
> opt to perform local authentication.
Figure 5.1.1.2-5: Request-response communication paradigm with access control
(implicit authentication and authorization)
## 5.2 Management interactions with NFV MANO
3GPP management system shall be capable to consume NFV MANO interface (e.g.
Os-Ma-nfvo, Ve-Vnfm-em and Ve-Vnfm-vnf reference points).
Producer of management services can consume management interfaces provided by
NFV MANO for following purposes:
\- Network service LCM.
\- VNF LCM, PM, FM, CM on resources supporting VNF.
## 5.3 Management service deployment based on ZSM framework
ZSM framework reference architecture is described in ETSI GS ZSM 002 [29]. The
ZSM framework reference architecture defines a set of architectural building
blocks that collectively enable construction of more complex management
services and management functions using a consistent set of composition and
interoperation patterns. So it is important to show the 3GPP Management
Service deployment based on ZSM Framework.Figure 5.3-1 shows an example of
3GPP Management Service deployment based on ZSM framework reference
architecture. In this example:
\- 3GPP Cross Management Domain (A bundle of Cross Domain MnFs) provides a set
of MnS(s) for Cross Domain Network (including Network Slice) and consumes MnSs
provided by the RAN Management Domain and the CN Management Domain. 3GPP Cross
Management Domain can implement close loop (s) within the domain. 3GPP Cross
Management Domain is a part of E2E Service Management Domain in ETSI ZSM
Framework.
\- RAN Management Domain (A bundle of RAN MnFs) provides a set of MnS(s) for
the RAN SubNetwork and NF. RAN Management Domain can implement close loop(s)
within the domain. RAN Management Domain is a Management Domain in ETSI ZSM
Framework.
\- CN Management Domain (A bundle of CN MnFs) provides a set of MnS(s) for the
CN SubNetwork and NF. CN Management Domain can implement close loop(s) within
the domain. CN Management Domain is a Management Domain in ETSI ZSM Framework.
\- A 3GPP Management Framework Consumer (e.g. vertical OT system, BSS) can
consume MnS(s) provided by the 3GPP Cross Management Domain, RAN Management
Domain,CN Management Domain. 3GPP Management Framework Consumer is a ZSM
framework consumer in ETSI ZSM Framework.
Figure 5.3-1: An example of Management Service deployment framework.
The closed control loop SLS assurance (COSLA) is an example of the closed loop
in ZSM framework. COSLA can be deployed at domain level or cross domain level.
A domain COSLA provides domain specific assurance, e.g. closed control loop
assurance in a RAN management domain, CN management domain. A cross domain
COSLA can provide a part of end-to-end SLS assurance service, e.g. to assure
the service experience in 3GPP cross management domain.
## 5.4 Management interactions with NWDAF
3GPP management system interacts with NWDAF in a coordinated way. 3GPP
management system takes the responsibility of management from the network-wide
view, addresses the slow control loop with broad management scope. NWDAF is a
5GC NF as specified in TS 23.288 [30].
# 6 Void
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example of deployment model with utilization
of management services
# A.1 Utilization of Management services in network and subnet layers
To deploy a management and orchestration system for the mobile network
including network slice(s), the management system can follow the network and
network slice management model, subnetwork and network slice subnet management
model, and network function management model. As an example, management models
are shown in Figure A.1.1, management services in each management model.
{width="4.756944444444445in" height="3.6659722222222224in"}
Figure A.1.1: Example management layers in layered management model
# A.2 Utilization of management services in network function management.
This subclause describes the network function management model in the example
of management services deployment. In case that a deployment requires
management service in NF management model, management services in NF
management model can provide specific management capability for NFs to
authorized management service consumer through service based interface.
NF management function is an execution entity to provide NF Management
services in NF management model. NF Management function (NFMF) may manage more
than one network functions.
NF management function for multiple managed network functions as shown in
Figure A.2.1 provides:
\- Management services exposure; and
\- Data governance for management service exposure.
NOTE 1: One example of a management object with multiple management services
is NF pooling design. Another example of a management object with this
multiple NF management services is 5G Core control plane.
NOTE 2: NF management function can behave as consumer to ETSI ISG NFV MANO
interfaces (e.g. Ve-Vnfm-em interface exposed by VNFM).
{width="5.64375in" height="1.3423611111111111in"}
Figure A.2.1: Example NF management function layer structure
As shown in Figure A.2.1, an example of NF management function model structure
is given. Exposure governance management function (EGMF) shown in Figure A.2.1
is management function in network function model with the role of management
service exposure governance (i.e. abstraction, simplification, filtering,
etc.). When multiple NF management services are exposed to network management,
the particular group of multiple NF management services can be represented by
a set of NF management services. This set of NF management services are
exposed as a bulk NF management service, by NF management function. Additional
management service abstraction may be needed based on NF management services
because of lack of trust relationship between management service
producer/consumer cannot address management services to build a global view of
subnet or meaningful management purposes.
# A.3 Utilization of management services by Exposure Governance Management
Function (EGMF)
Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) offers following management
capability (Figure A.3.1):
\- Exposure governance
NOTE: Details of EGMF management capability exposure governance is FFS.
In Figure A.3.1, EGMF produces exposure governance management capability that
operators can apply on Management Function (MnF) 1 MnS for exposing different
derivation of MnF 1 MnS to:
\- MnF 2 (e.g. from another Operator) and
\- 3^rd^ party (e.g. from vertical industry).
NOTE: Exposure governance can be controlled by a policy for different type of
MnF 1 MnS consumers (e.g. other operator, other management system, 3rd party,
other administrative domain, etc.)
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.015277777777778in"}
Figure A.3.1: MnF-1 Management Service (MnS) exposed through Exposure
Governance Management Function 1 (EGMF 1) and through Exposure Governance
Management Function 2 (EGMF 2)
# A.4 Utilization of interface to NFV-MANO by the producer of management
services
In this deployment scenario the producers of the network slice subnet related
management services and NF related management services are also consuming the
management interfaces provided by the NFV-MANO:
\- -VNF PM, FM and LCM
\- Network service PM, FM and LCM
These interfaces are provided via the Os-Ma-nfvo and the Ve-Vnfm-em reference
points as specified in the following specifications:
\- Configuration Management (CM): TS 28.510 [11], TS 28.511 [12], TS 28.512
[13], TS 28.513 [14],
\- Fault Management (FM): TS 28.515 [15], TS 28.516 [16], TS 28.517 [17], TS
28.518 [18],
\- Performance Management (PM): TS 28.520[19], TS 28.521 [20], TS 28.522 [21],
TS 28.523 [22],
\- Life Cycle Management (LCM): TS 28.525[23], TS 28.526 [24], TS 28.527 [25],
TS 28.528 [26].
In this deployment scenario:
\- the entity denoted as NSSMF, is capable of consuming the VNF LCM and
network service LCM related services provided by the NFV-MANO (NFVO). Same
entity is also a producer of the network slice subnet related management
services.
\- the entity denoted as NFMF (NF Management Function), is capable of
application level management of VNFs and PNFs and is a producer of the NF
Provisioning service that includes Configuration Management (CM), Fault
Management (FM) and Performance Management. Same entity is consumer of the NF
Provisioning service produced by VNFs and PNFs.
{width="5.151388888888889in" height="3.8965277777777776in"}
Figure A.4.1 The deployment scenario for network slice subnet management with
interface to NFV-MANO
_The use case Network slice subnet instance creation in the clause 5.1.2 of
the TS 28.531 [8] shows example of interaction between:_
\- the consumer of the network slice subnet related management services (e.g.
network slice subnet provisioning service) and the NSSMF as the producer of
the network slice subnet related management services.
\- the NSSMF and the NFMF.
and also, the interaction between:
\- the NSSMF and the NFV-MANO,
\- the NFMF and the NFV-MANO.
NOTE: Figure A.4.1 shows an example of a deployment scenario, not all
scenarios are captured by this figure.
# A.5 Management Data Analytics Service (MDAS)
A management data analytics service (MDAS) provides data analytics of
different network related parameters including for example load level and/or
resource utilisation. For example, the MDAS for a network function (NF) can
collect the NF\'s load related performance data, e.g. resource usage status of
the NF. The analysis of the collected data may provide forecast of resource
usage information in a predefined future time. This analysis may also
recommend appropriate actions e.g. scaling of resources, admission control,
load balancing of traffic, etc.
A MDAS for a NetworkSliceSubnet provides network slice subnet related data
analytics. The service may consume the corresponding MDAS of its constituent
NFs\'. The MDAS for a network slice subnet may further classify or shape the
data in different useful categories and analyse them for different network
slice subnet management needs (e.g. scaling, admission control of the
constituent NFs etc.). If a network slice subnet is composed of multiple other
network slice subnets, the MDAS for a network slice subnet acts as a consumer
of MDAS of the constituent network slice subnets for further analysis e.g.
resource usage prediction, failure prediction for a network slice subnet, etc.
A MDAS for a NetworkSlice instance provides network slice related data
analytics. The service may consume the corresponding MDAS of its constituent
network slice subnet(s). The network slice MDAS may further classify or shape
the data in different useful categories according to different customer needs,
e.g. slice load, constituent network slice subnet load, communication service
loads. This data can be used for further analysis e.g. resource usage
prediction, failure prediction for a network slice, etc.
# A.6 Utilization of management services in functional management architecture
The management services for a mobile network including network slicing may be
produced by a set of functional blocks. This annex shows an example of such
deployment scenario where functional blocks (such as NSMF, NSSMF, NFMF and
CSMF) are producing and consuming various management services.
{width="6.682638888888889in" height="3.1041666666666665in"}
Figure A.6.1: Example of functional management architecture
In this deployment example:
\- NFMF (Network Function Management Function) provides the management
services for managing one or more NF(s) and may consume some management
services produced by other functional blocks.
\- The NF provides some management services, for example the NF performance
management services, NF configuration management services and NF fault
supervision services.
\- NSSMF provides the management services for one or more network slice
subnets and may consume some management services produced by other functional
blocks.
\- NSMF provides the management services for one or more network slices and
may consume some management services produced by other functional blocks.
\- MDAF provides the Management Data Analytics Service for one or more NF,
network slice subnet and/or network slice, and may consume some management
services produced by other functional blocks.
\- CSMF consumes the management service(s) provided by the other functional
blocks. This deployment example does not illustrate what management services
the CSMF consumes.
\- EGMF provides management service(s) with applied exposure governance and a
management service with management capability exposure governance to one or
more management service consumers and may consume some management services
produced by other functional blocks.
\- One functional block may consume the management service(s) provided by
another functional block, depending on the management scope of the functional
block(s). The scope may be expressed in the terms of Management Service
Components (see clause 4.3).
# A.7 Utilization of management data analytics services
A management data analytics service (MDAS) provides data analytics for the
network. MDAS can be deployed at different levels, for example, at domain
level (e.g. RAN, CN, network slice subnet) or in a centralized manner (e.g. in
a PLMN level). A domain-level MDAS provides domain specific analytics, e.g.
resource usage prediction in a CN or failure prediction in a network slice
subnet, etc. A centralized MDAS can provide end-to-end or cross-domain
analytics service, e.g. resource usage or failure prediction in an network
slice, optimal CN node placement for ensuring lowest latency in the connected
RAN, etc. Figure A.7.1 illustrates an example of deployment model of the MDAS:
\- Domain MDAF produces Domain MDAS
\- Domain MDAS is consumed by the Centralized MDAF and the other authorized
MDAS Consumers (for example, infrastructure manager, network manager, network
slice manager, network slice subnet manager, other 3rd party OSS, etc.)
\- Centralized MDAF produces Centralized MDAS
\- Centralized MDAS is consumed by different authorized MDAS Consumers
{width="2.671527777777778in" height="2.7916666666666665in"}
Figure A.7.1: MDAS provided at different levels
# A.8 An example of deployment scenario for network and network slice
This annex shows an example of deployment scenario for management of a mobile
network including network slicing.
{width="6.10625in" height="3.390277777777778in"}
Figure A.8.1: An example of deployment scenario for management of a mobile
network including network slicing
In this deployment scenario:
\- Network and Network Slice Management Function provides the management
services for network or network slice which includes RAN part, CN part and TN
part to the Consumer. Network and NetworkSlice Management Function consumes
management services for RAN SubNetwork or network slice subnet produced by RAN
Management Function, management services for CN SubNetwork or NSSI produced by
CN Management Function and interface produced by TN Manager.
\- RAN Management Function provides the management services for a RAN
SubNetwork or network slice subnet and/or management services for RAN NF(s).
RAN Management Function may consume management service for RAN SubNetwork or
network slice subnet and management services for RAN NF. In this scenario, the
following RAN Management Function(s) are described:
\- RAN Management Function A provides the management services for RAN
SubNetwork or network slice subnet to Network and Network Slice Management
Function. RAN Management Function A consumes the management services for RAN
network slice subnet(s) and management services for RAN NF produced by RAN
Management Function B, and management services for RAN NF produced by RAN
Management Function C.
\- RAN Management Function B provides the management services for RAN network
slice subnet and management services for RAN NF to RAN Management Function A.
\- RAN Management Function C provides the management services for RAN NF to
RAN Management Function A.
\- CN Management Function provides the management services for a CN network
slice subnet and/or management services for CN NF. CN Management Function may
consume management service for CN network slice subnet and management services
for CN NF. In this scenario, the following CN Management Function(s) are
described:
\- CN Management Function A provides the management services for CN network
slice subnet to Network and Network Slice Management Function. CN A consumes
the management services for CN network slice subnet and management services
for CN NF produced by CN Management Function B and management services for CN
NFs produced by CN Management Function C.
\- CN Management Function B provides the management services for CN network
slice subnet and management services for CN NF to RAN Management Function A.
\- CN Management Function C provides the management services for CN NF to CN
Management Function A.
# A.9 Deployment examples of ONAP platform consuming 3GPP MnS(s)
## A.9.1 Integration with ONAP DCAE collection framework utilizing 3GPP MnS(s)
Figure A.9.1 shows an example of integration with ONAP DCAE utilizing the
management services provided by 3GPP Data Report MnS Producer. In this
example, the 3GPP MnS(s) Consumer which uses the ONAP DCAE Collection
Framework, utilizes the management services (i.e., Performance Data File
Report MnS, Performance Data Streaming MnS, Fault Supervision Data Report MnS)
provided by 3GPP Management Service(s) Producer.
{width="3.375in" height="1.75in"}
Figure A.9.1: An example of integration with ONAP DCAE Collection Framework
utilizing the management services provided by 3GPP Data Report MnS(s) Producer
### A.9.2 Integration with ONAP controller utilizing 3GPP MnS(s)
Figure A.9.2 shows an example of integration with ONAP Controller (e.g. APPC)
utilizing provisioning management services provided by 3GPP Management Service
Producer. In this example, the 3GPP MnS(s) Consumer which uses ONAP Controller
may utilize the provisioning management services (e.g. configuration
management related provisioning management service components) as follows
provided by 3GPP Management Service Producer.
{width="2.8020833333333335in" height="1.8958333333333333in"}
Figure A.9.2: An example of integration with ONAP Controller utilizing the
management services provided by 3GPP MnS(s) Producer
###### ## Annex B (normative): Solutions for management of 5G network and
network slicing
Figure B.1 shows the two solutions for managing the mobile network including
network slicing:
Solution1: Management with combination of existing interface IRP where
applicable and 5G management information (Management service component type B
and Management service component type C).
Solution2: Management with using the management services (Management service
component type A, Management service component type B and Management service
component type C).
{width="3.6743055555555557in" height="2.5069444444444446in"}
Figure B.1: Two solutions for managing a 5G network including network slicing
###### ## Annex C (informative): Example of mapping Management Services (MnS)
to pre-Rel-15 management framework
Figure C.1 depicts an example of management service consumer and producer
interaction shown in the context of the 3GPP pre-Rel-15 management reference
model [10] where Integration Reference Point (IRP) information services are
replaced by the management services. One or more management service producers
are provided by a management function that applies to a network resource model
representing the managed network.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.748611111111111in"}
Figure C.1: Example of Management service producer and consumer interaction
mapped into the pre-Rel-15 management reference model [10]
###### ## Annex D (normative): Access control workflow
# D.1 Explicit authentication and authorization
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="5.834027777777778in"}
NOTE 1: the authentication (administrative) service consumer could be a portal
or other operator tool acting on behalf of an administrator of operator.
Precondition:
Mutual authentication between authentication (administrative) service consumer
and authentication/management service producer, as well as between MnS
producer and authentication service producer, has been done, according to
operator\'s implementation.
Authentication service producer contains authentication information required
to perform authentication such as identities (including credential of the
identity), and/or groups, and/or authentication policies. The specific
information required will depend on the implementation.
The MnS consumer successfully authenticated (or validated the authenticity of)
authentication/management service producer.
Procedure:
101\. When authentication request is received, authentication service producer
gets the identifier and credential of the MnS consumer, along with other
context information (e.g. address of the client) from the request.
NOTE 2: challenges may be exchanged between MnS consumer and authentication
service producer for some authentication protocols.
102\. Based on identifier in the request, authentication service producer gets
identity information, e.g. status of the identity, associated group(s) of the
identity, credential of the identity, etc., from data store. Then the producer
authenticates the MnS consumer by validating the identity information and
other context (e.g. time, location of the consumer) according to
authentication policies (e.g. authentication factor, protocol, supported time,
location, status of the consumer, etc. ) associated to the group(s) the MnS
consumer belongs to.
103\. The authentication service producer updates the authentication state of
the MnS consumer in the data store after authenticated the MnS consumer.
NOTE 3: If authenticate successfully and authentication assertion is supported
by the protocol, the authentication service producer constructs authentication
assertion and may update the assertion of the MnS consumer in the data store.
104\. If authenticate successfully and authentication assertion is supported
by the protocol, the authentication service producer sends successful response
with an authentication assertion to the MnS consumer.
105\. If authenticate successfully and authentication assertion is not
supported by the protocol, the authentication service producer sends
successful response without authentication assertion to the MnS consumer.
106\. If fail for authentication, the authentication service producer sends
failure response to the MnS consumer.
> **After the MnS consumer is authenticated:**
>
> **If access token is supported by the MnS producer and consumer:**
201\. The MnS consumer gets access token from authorization service producer.
202\. The authorization service producer validates the assertion and construct
access token.
203\. The authorization service producer returns access token to the MnS
consumer.
204\. The MnS consumer accesses MnS with the access token.
205\. The MnS producer validates the token.
206\. The MnS producer performs the operation and returns result to the MnS
consumer if the token is valid.
> **If access token is not supported by the MnS producer and consumer:**
207\. The MnS consumer accesses MnS from MnS producer.
208\. The MnS producer validate the authentication assertion and check
permission of the MnS consumer with authorization service producer.
NOTE 4: The MnS producer may authorize the MnS request of MnS consumer
according to local policies.
209\. The MnS producer performs the operation and returns result to the
consumer if the MnS request is allowed according to permissions.
# D.2 Implicit authentication and authorization
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="4.128472222222222in"}
Precondition:
A centralized authentication service producer, e.g. LDAP server, is deployed
in operator's network and will be used by MnS Producer to perform
authentication. MnS Consumer does not interact directly with authenication
service producer.
Authentication service producer contains authentication information required
for MnS Producer to perform authentication such as MnS Consumer identities
(including credentials) and/or groups. The specific information required will
depend on the implementation.
MnS Producer has been configured to use the centralized authentication service
producer.
MnS Producer optionally has support for local authentication, i.e. in event
centralized authentication service is unavailable.
MnS Producer has been configured with access rules, used for local enforcement
based on MnS Consumer access privileges.
Procedure:
> **Session Initiation:**
101\. MnS Consumer initiates a management session towards MnS Producer. As
part of session establishment credentials are exchanged.
102\. Based on credentials in the request, MnS Producer accesses
Authentication Service Producer to verify the identity, and information
required to perform access control including the associated group(s) of the
identity.
103\. If Authentication Service Producer is unavailable, MnS Producer may opt
to perform local authentication.
104\. If authentication is successful, MnS Producer sends success response and
an authentication context is established between MnS Consumer and MnS
Producer.
105\. If authentication fails, MnS Producer sends failure response to MnS
Consumer.
> **Session Duration:**
106/7. For each MnS Consumer request, MnS Producer enforces access control
using local policies applicable for the current authentication context.
> **Session Termination:**
108\. Upon session termination the authentication context is also terminated.
###### ## Annex E (informative): 5G specifications overview
The following figure and table show the overview information of 5G
specifications which capture corresponding management features:
{width="6.53125in" height="3.71875in"}
Figure E-1: Overview of 5G management specifications
In the figure, some features are generic management features which are applied
to management of different network technologies, and some features are 5G
specific management features which apply for management of 5G network only.
The following table provides the overall 5G management features and the
related specification information.
+-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | 5G related management | Related specifications | | | features | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 1 | 5G management capabilities | TS 28.537[39],TS | | | (Heart beat) | 28.532[9] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 2 | Network and service | TS 28.530[3] | | | management concept | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 3 | Network management service | TS 28.533[36] | | | based management | | | | architecture | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 4 | Management and | TS 28.100[35] | | | orchestration; Levels of | | | | autonomous network | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 5 | Network and Network slicing | | | | management related | | | | specifications | | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 5.1 | Network and Network slicing | TS 28.531[8],TS | | | provisioning | 28.532[9],TS | | | | 28.540[41],TS 28.541[4] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 5.2 | Network and Network slicing | TS 28.545[28],TS | | | fault supervision | 28.532[9] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 5.3 | Network and Network slicing | TS 28.550[42],TS | | | performance assurance | 28.532[9],TS | | | | 28.540[41],TS | | | | 28.541[4],TS 28.552[5], | | | | TS 28.554[6] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 5.4 | NRM | TS 28.540[41],TS | | | | 28.541[4] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 6 | ONAP-3GPP integration | TS 28.532[9] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 7 | Trace and MDT management | TS 32.421[43],TS | | | | 32.422[44], TS | | | | 32.423[45] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 8 | QOE Management | TS 28.622[32], TS | | | | 28.623[54], | | | | | | | | TS 28.404[48], TS | | | | 28.405[49],TS 28.406[50] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 9 | Inventory management | TS 28.631[51], TS | | | | 28.632[52], TS | | | | 28.633[53] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 10 | Management data collection | TS28.533[36], | | | control and discovery | 28.532[9],28.622[32], | | | (MADCOL) | | | | | 28.623[54] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 11 | 5G RAN Sharing | TS 32.130[55], TS | | | | 28.541[4],TS 28.552[5] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 12 | Edge Computing Management | TS 28.538[40] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 13 | Energy efficiency related | TS 28.310[56],TS | | | specifications | 28.532[9],TS | | | | 28.552[5],TS 28.554[6] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 14 | Management Data Analytics | TS 28.104[57] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 15 | 5G SON management | TS 28.313[58],TS | | | | 28.541[4] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 16 | Plug and Connect | TS 28.314[59],TS | | | | 28.315[60], TS | | | | 28.316[61] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 17 | Policy management | TS 28.555[62], TS | | | | 28.556[63] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 18 | Close-loop SLS | TS 28.535[37], TS | | | | 28.536[38] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 19 | Intent-driven management | TS 28.312[46] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 20 | Management service discovery | TS 28.530[3],TS | | | | 28.533[36] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 21 | SLA management | TS 28.540[41],TS | | | | 28.541[4], TS 28.531[8], | | | | TS 28.550[42] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 22 | NPN management | TS 28.557[47] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+ | 23 | Management of tenant | TS 28.530[3], TS | | | information | 28.531[8],TS | | | | 28.533[36],TS | | | | 28.550[42],TS | | | | 28.552[5],TS 28.541[4] | +-----+------------------------------+------------------------------+
#