# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document describes closed control loop assurance solution enabling
a service provider or an operator to continuously deliver the requested level
of communication service quality to the customer and is part of a TS-family
covering the 3rd Generation Partnership Project Technical Specification Group
Services and System Aspects Management and orchestration of networks, as
identified below:
TS 28.535: Management Services for Communication Service Assurance;
Requirements
**TS 28.536: Management Services for Communication Service Assurance; Stage 2
and stage 3**
The solution described builds upon the management services specifications as
identified below:
TS 28.530: Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and requirements
TS 28.533: Management and orchestration; Architecture framework
TS 28.532: Management and orchestration; Generic management services.
TS 28.540: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM);
Stage 1
TS 28.541: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM);
Stage 2 and stage 3
TS 28.531: Management and orchestration; Provisioning
TS 28.545: Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)
TS 28.550: Management and orchestration; Performance assurance
TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements
TS 28.554: Management and orchestration; 5G End to end Key Performance
Indicators (KPI)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the management services for communication
service assurance and specifies stage 2 and stage 3 for closed control loop
communication service assurance solution that adjusts and optimizes the
services provided by NG-RAN and 5GC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[4] Void
[5] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 32.160: \"Management and orchestration; Management service
template\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.520: \"5G System; Network Data Analytics Services; Stage 3\".
[12] Void
[13] Void
[14] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"State Management Data Definition Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
[16] Void
[17] 3GPP TS 28.535: \"Management and orchestration; Management services for
communication service assurance; Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
COSLA Closed control loop SLS Assurance
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
IOC Information Object Class
JSON JavaScript Object Notation
YAML YAML Ain\'t Markup Language
MDAS Management Data Analytics Service
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MnS Management Service
NF Network Function
NRM Network Resource Model
NSSI NetworkSlice Subnet Instance
NWDAF NetWork Data Analytics Function
QoE Quality of Experience
SLA Service Level agreement
SLS Service Level Specification
# 4 Communication service assurance service
## 4.1 Stage 2
### 4.1.1 Void
### 4.1.2 Model
#### 4.1.2.1 Imported and associated information entities
##### 4.1.2.1.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [5], IOC, Top Top
* * *
##### 4.1.2.1.2 Associated information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 28.622 [5], IOC, SubNetwork SubNetwork TS
28.541 [6], IOC, NetWorkSlice NetworkSlice TS 28.541 [6], IOC,
NetWorkSliceSubnet NetworkSliceSubnet TS 28.622 [5], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement TS 28.541 [6], attribute, serviceProfileId serviceProfileId TS
28.541 [6], attribute, sliceProfileId sliceProfileId TS 28.541 [6], attribute,
taiList taiList
* * *
#### 4.1.2.2 Class diagram
#### 4.1.2.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes that encapsulates the information
relevant for this MnS. This clause provides an overview of the relationships
between relevant classes in UML. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
Figure 4.1.2.2.1.1: Assurance management NRM fragment
#### 4.1.2.2.2 Inheritance
Figure 4.1.2.2.2.1: Assurance management inheritance relationships
#### 4.1.2.3 Class definitions
##### 4.1.2.3.1 AssuranceClosedControlLoop
##### 4.1.2.3.1.1 Definition {#definition .H6}
This class represents the information for controlling and monitoring an
assurance closed control loop associated with a NetworkSlice or
NetworkSliceSubnet. It can be name-contained by SubNetwork or ManagedElement.
To express the assurance closed control loop goals, the MnS consumer needs to
request the MnS producer to create an AssuranceClosedControlLoop on the MnS
producer. The MnS producer may trigger to create the
AssuranceClosedControlLoop as well, for example, when an instance of
NetworkSlice or NetworkSliceSubnet is created, MnS producer may create an
instance of AssuranceClosedControlLoop associated to the instance of
NetworkSlice or NetworkSliceSubnet to assure the target described in
ServiceProfile or SliceProfile. For the deletion of the assurance closed
control loop, the MnS consumer needs to request the MnS producer to delete the
AssuranceClosedControlLoop to free up resources on the MnS producer. MnS
producer also can trigger to delete AssuranceClosedControlLoop to free up
resources by itself.
For temporary deactivation of the assurance closed control loop, the MnS
consumer can modify the value of the administrative state attribute to
"LOCKED". The MnS producer may disable the assurance closed control loop, for
example in conflict situations, by setting the operational state attribute to
"disabled". When a closed control loop is enabled by the MnS producer, the
operational state is set again to "enabled". For the activation of an
assurance closed control loop, the MnS consumer can modify the value of the
administrative state attribute to "UNLOCKED".
An AssuranceClosedControlLoop can name-contain multiple instances of
AssuranceGoal which represents the assurance goal and corresponding observed
or predicted goal fulfilment information (see clause 4.1.2.3.2). The
AssuranceGoal may optionally include an assurance scope in terms of location
(see clause 4.1.2.3.2).
The attribute "controlLoopLifeCyclePhase" is used to keep track of the
lifecycle of an AssuranceClosedControlLoop.
The attribute aCCLDisallowedList is used to descope the ACCL. See clause 6.1.6
of TS 28.535 [17]. Each entry in the list indicates a specific list of
attributes belonging to a managedEntity identified by the
managedEntityIdentifier which the ACCL is not allowed to modify.
##### 4.1.2.3.1.2 Attributes {#attributes .H6}
The AssuranceClosedControlLoop IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC
(defined TS 28.622[5]) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
**operationalState** M T F F T administrativeState M T T F T
controlLoopLifeCyclePhase M T T F T aCCLDisallowedList O T T F T **Attributes
related to role**  
networkSliceRef CM T T F T networkSliceSubnetRef CM T T F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.1.3 Constraints {#constraints .H6}
Name Definition
* * *
networkSliceSubnetRef Condition: the AssuranceGoal applies to a
NetworkSliceSubNet networkSliceRef Condition: the AssuranceGoal applies to a
NetworkSlice
##### 4.1.2.3.1.4 Notifications {#notifications .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
##### 4.1.2.3.2 AssuranceGoal
##### 4.1.2.3.2.1 Definition {#definition-1 .H6}
This IOC represents assurance goal.
To express a new assurance goal for the assurance closed control loop, the MnS
consumer needs to request the MnS producer to create an instance of
AssuranceGoal. MnS producer can also trigger the creation of an instance of
AssuranceGoal. For example, when a new instance NetworkSlice or
NetworkSliceSubnet is created on the MnS producer and the corresponding SLS
needs to be assured, a new instance of AssuranceGoal needs to be created and
associated to the new instance NetworkSlice or NetworkSliceSubnet by
configuring the attributes "networkSliceRef" or "networkSliceSubnetRef" and
corresponding attributes "serviceProfileId" and "sliceProfileId".
The attribute "assuranceTargetList" defines a list of assurance targets (the
subset of attributes from an SLS, i.e. a ServiceProfile or a SliceProfile,
that are subject to assurance requirements.) that should be assured by the
AssuranceClosedControlLoop. The attribute "assuranceTargetList" is configured
by MnS producer based on the specified ServiceProfile or SliceProfile.
NOTE: Multiple instances of AssuranceGoal can be created for a single instance
of NetworkSlice or NetworkSliceSubnet.
##### 4.1.2.3.2.2 Attributes {#attributes-1 .H6}
The AssuranceGoal IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined TS
28.622[5]) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
assuranceTargetList M T F F T sliceProfileId CM T T F T serviceProfileId CM T
T F T observationTime M T T F T assuranceScope O T F F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.2.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints .H6}
Name Definition
* * *
sliceProfileId Condition: the AssuranceGoal applies to a NetworkSliceSubNet
serviceProfileId Condition: the AssuranceGoal applies to a NetworkSlice
##### 4.1.2.3.2.4 Notifications {#notifications-1 .H6}
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.1.2.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
##### 4.1.2.3.3 Void
##### 4.1.2.3.4 Void
##### 4.1.2.3.5 AssuranceTarget \>
##### 4.1.2.3.5.1 Definition {#definition-2 .H6}
This data type represents a single attribute name-value-pair of which one or
more are included in an AssuranceGoal.
##### 4.1.2.3.5.2 Attributes {#attributes-2 .H6}
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
**assuranceTargetName** M T T F T **assuranceTargetValue** M T F F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.5.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-1 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document.
##### 4.1.2.3.5.4 Notifications {#notifications-2 .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for the \>
using this \> as one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
##### 4.1.2.3.6 AssuranceGoalStatus \>
##### 4.1.2.3.6.1 Definition {#definition-3 .H6}
This data type represents the observed and/or predicted AssuranceGoal
fulfilment status.
To obtain the observed predicted status of the the goal fulfilment
information, the MnS consumer can query the attributes
"AssuranceGoalStatusObserved" and "AssuranceGoalStatusPredicted"from MnS
producer. The attributes "AssuranceGoalStatusObserved" and
"AssuranceGoalStatusPredicted" are configured by MnS producer at the end of an
observation period. The observation period is assigned by MnS consumer through
requesting the MnS producer to set attribute "observationTime". The status of
the goal fuilfilment is considered FULFILLED if all the constituent targets
are FULFILLED.
##### 4.1.2.3.6.2 Attributes {#attributes-3 .H6}
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable **assuranceGoalStatusId** M T F F T assuranceGoalId O T F F T
assuranceGoalStatusObserved O T F F T assuranceGoalStatusPredicted O T F F T
assuranceTargetStatusList O T F F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.6.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-2 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document.
##### 4.1.2.3.6.4 Notifications {#notifications-3 .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for this
\> , without exceptions or additions.
##### 4.1.2.3.7 AssuranceTargetStatus \>
##### 4.1.2.3.7.1 Definition {#definition-4 .H6}
This data type represents the observed and/or predicted target fulfilment
status.
To obtain the observed predicted status of the the target fulfilment
information, the MnS consumer can query the attributes
"AssuranceTargetStatusObserved" and "AssuranceTargetPredicted" from MnS
producer. The attributes"AssuranceTargetStatusObserved" and
"AssuranceTargetStatusPredicted" are configured by MnS producer at the end of
an observation period. The observation period is assigned by MnS consumer
through requesting the MnS producer to set attribute "observationTime". The
status of the target fuilfilment is considered FULFILLED if all the
constituent target are FULFILLED.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable **assuranceTargetStatusId** M T F F T assuranceTargetName O T F F
T assuranceTargetStatusObserved O T F F T assuranceTargetStatusPredicted O T F
F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.7.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-3 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document.
##### 4.1.2.3.7.4 Notifications {#notifications-4 .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for the \>
using this \> as one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
##### 4.1.2.3.8 AssuranceReport \>
##### 4.1.2.3.8.1 Definition {#definition-5 .H6}
This class represents the attributes of assurance report, e.g, the information
about one or multiple AssuranceGoalStatus and one or multiple
AssuranceTargetStatus.
The attribute "assuranceGoalStatusList" defines a list of AssuranceGoalStatus.
AssuranceReport represents the monitoring information of an assurance closed
control loop. An AssuranceReport is contained by an
AssuranceClosedControlLoop. There is one AssuranceReport per assurance closed
control loop for an observation time. The content of the AssuranceReport may
be different for different observation time. According to the AssuranceGoal
and the AssuranceReport, the consumer performs closed control loop governance
as described in clause \"4.2.5 Closed control loop governance and monitoring\"
in TS 28.535 [17].
##### 4.1.2.3.8.2 Attributes {#attributes-4 .H6}
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable assuranceGoalStatusList O T F F T **Attributes related to role**  
**assuranceGoalRef** O T F F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.8.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-4 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document
##### 4.1.2.3.8.4 Notifications {#notifications-5 .H6}
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.1.2.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
##### 4.1.2.3.9 AssuranceScope \>
##### 4.1.2.3.9.1 Definition {#definition-6 .H6}
It indicates the target for assurance goal in terms of location. A particular
ACCL can target for a particular location. The assurance goal status is
ascertained based on the appropriately collected performance measurements as
per the target location.
##### 4.1.2.3.9.2 Attributes {#attributes-5 .H6}
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
taiList O T F F T
##### 4.1.2.3.9.3 Attribute constraints {#attribute-constraints-5 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document.
##### 4.1.2.3.9.4 Notifications {#notifications-6 .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for the \>
using this \> as one of its attributes, shall be applicable.
##### 4.1.2.3.10 ACCLDisallowedAttributes \>
##### 4.1.2.3.10.1 Definition {#definition-7 .H6}
This data type represents attributes which an ACCL is not allowed to change.
The first attribute "managedEntityIdentifier" identifies the DN of the
SubNetwork or ManagedElement, the second attribute is a list of attributeNames
of the Subnetwork or ManagedElement.
##### 4.1.2.3.10.2 Attributes {#attributes-6 .H6}
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable managedEntityIdentifier M T T F T attributeNameList M T T F T
* * *
##### 4.1.2.3.10.3 Constraints {#constraints-1 .H6}
No constraints have been defined for this document.
##### 4.1.2.3.10 .4 Notifications {#notifications-7 .H6}
The common notifications defined in clause 4.1.2.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
#### 4.1.2.4 Attribute definitions
##### 4.1.2.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes that are specified in
the present document.
Table 4.1.2.4.1.1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | contr | It indicates the | type: Enum | | olLoopLifeCyclePhase | lifecycle phase of | | | | the | multiplicity: 1 | | | Assura | | | | nceClosedControlLoop | isOrdered: N/A | | | instance. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | AllowedValues: | | | | Preparation, | defaultValue: NULL | | | Commissioning, | | | | Operation and | isNullable: False | | | Decommissioning. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceTargetName | The name of the | type: String | | | attribute which is | | | | part of | multiplicity: 1 | | | AssuranceTarget and | | | | As | isOrdered: N/A | | | suranceTargetStatus. | | | | The | isUnique: N/A | | | assuranceTargetName | | | | uniquely identifies | defaultValue: None | | | the name of an | | | | AssuranceTarget | isNullable: False | | | instance in | | | | corresponding | | | | A | | | | ssuranceTargetStatus | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | The | | | | **a | | | | ssuranceTargetName** | | | | shall be equal to | | | | the name of an | | | | attribute in the | | | | relevant | | | | ServiceProfile or | | | | SliceProfile. The | | | | relevant | | | | ServiceProfile or | | | | SliceProfile is | | | | identified by the | | | | attribute | | | | serviceProfileId or | | | | sliceProfileId in | | | | the AssuranceGoal. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceTargetValue | The value of the | type: String | | | attribute which is | | | | part of | multiplicity: 1 | | | AssuranceTarget | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceTargetList | This is an attribute | type: | | | containing a list of | AssuranceTarget | | | AssuranceTarget(s) | | | | that are part of an | multiplicity: 1..* | | | AssuranceGoal | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | observationTime | It indicates the | type: Integer | | | observation period | | | | of | multiplicity: 1 | | | assuran | | | | ceGoalStatusObserved | isOrdered: N/A | | | and | | | | assurance | isUnique: N/A | | | GoalStatusPredicted. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | The assurance goal | | | | will be observed | isNullable: False | | | from the start of | | | | each observation | | | | period, then at the | | | | end of each | | | | observation period, | | | | the value for | | | | assuran | | | | ceGoalStatusObserved | | | | and | | | | assuranc | | | | eGoalStatusPredicted | | | | will be derived and | | | | configured. | | | | | | | | The observation time | | | | is expressed in | | | | seconds. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuran | It holds the status | type: ENUM | | ceGoalStatusObserved | of the observed goal | | | | fulfilment to the | multiplicity: 1 | | | assuranceGoal. The | | | | value is FULFILLED | isOrdered: N/A | | | only if all the | | | | constituent | isUnique: N/A | | | assurance | | | | TargetStatusObserved | defaultValue: None | | | are FULFILLED. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | During the initial | | | | operation of a | | | | closed control loop | | | | no fulfilment | | | | information may be | | | | available to report, | | | | the value NO_REPORT | | | | will be used. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"NO_REPORT , | | | | \"FULFILLED\", | | | | "NOT_FULFILLED | | | | | | | | Editor's Note: | | | | Whether a more | | | | suiteable phrase for | | | | NO_REPLY is needed | | | | is FFS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranc | It holds the status | type: ENUM | | eGoalStatusPredicted | of the predicted | | | | future goal | multiplicity: 1 | | | fulfilment to the | | | | assuranceGoal . The | isOrdered: N/A | | | value is FULFILLED | | | | only if all the | isUnique: N/A | | | constituent | | | | assuranceT | defaultValue: None | | | argetStatusPredicted | | | | are FULFILLED. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | During the initial | | | | operation of a | | | | closed control loop | | | | no fulfilment | | | | information may be | | | | available to report, | | | | the value NO_REPORT | | | | will be used. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"NO_REPORT\", | | | | \"FULFILLED\", | | | | "NOT_FULFILLED\". | | | | | | | | Editor's Note: | | | | Whether a more | | | | suiteable phrase for | | | | NO_REPLY is needed | | | | is FFS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assurance | It holds the status | type: ENUM | | TargetStatusObserved | of the observed | | | | target fulfilment to | multiplicity: 1 | | | the assuranceGoal. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"FULFILLED\", | isUnique: N/A | | | "NOT_FULFILLED | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceT | It holds the status | type: ENUM | | argetStatusPredicted | of the predicted | | | | future target | multiplicity: 1 | | | fulfilment to the | | | | assuranceGoal | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | \"FULFILLED\", | | | | "NOT_FULFILLED\" | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | networkSliceRef | It holds the | type: Dn | | | reference to the | | | | NetworkSlice | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance subject to | | | | assurance | isOrdered: N/A | | | requirements | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | n | It holds the | type: Dn | | etworkSliceSubnetRef | reference to the | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance subject to | | | | assurance | isOrdered: N/A | | | requirements | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationalState | It indicates the | type: ENUM | | | operational state of | | | | the | multiplicity: 1 | | | Assura | | | | nceClosedControlLoop | isOrdered: N/A | | | instance. It | | | | describes whether | isUnique: N/A | | | the resource is | | | | installed and | defaultValue: | | | partially or fully | Disabled | | | operable (Enabled) | | | | or the resource is | allowedValues: | | | not installed or not | Enabled, Disabled | | | operable (Disabled). | | | | | isNullable: False | | | Allowed values; | | | | Enabled/Disabled | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"ENABLED\", | | | | \"DISABLED\". | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in 3GPP TS 28.625 | | | | [14] and ITU-T | | | | X.731 [15]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | administrativeState | It indicates the | type: ENUM | | | administrative state | | | | of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | Assura | | | | nceClosedControlLoop | isOrdered: N/A | | | instance. It | | | | describes the | isUnique: N/A | | | permission to use or | | | | the prohibition | defaultValue: Locked | | | against using the | | | | Assura | allowedValues: | | | nceClosedControlLoop | Locked, Unlocked | | | instance. The | | | | administrative state | isNullable: False | | | is set by the MnS | | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | Allowed values; | | | | Locked/Unlocked | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"LOCKED\", | | | | \"UNLOCKED\". | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in 3GPP TS 28.625 | | | | [14] and ITU-T | | | | X.731 [15]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceScope | It indicates the | type: AssuranceScope | | | target for assurance | | | | goal in terms of a | multiplicity: 1 | | | particular location. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | Allowed values: Not | | | | Applicable | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: NA | | | | | | | | allowedValues: NA | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Man | The DN of a managed | Type: DN | | agedEntityIdentifier | entity | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | Allowed values: not | | | | applicable | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: NA | | | | | | | | allowedValues: NA | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | attributeNameList | This is a list | Type: | | | parameter identifies | AttributeNameList of | | | a list ofthe | String | | | attributes names of | | | | a ManagedElement or | multiplicity: 1..* | | | a Subnetwork | | | | identified with | isOrdered: TrueFalse | | | Man | | | | agedEntityIdentifier | isUnique: True | | | that are **not** | | | | allowed to be | defaultValue: NA | | | modified by an ACCL. | | | | | allowedValues: NA | | | Allowed values: not | | | | applicable | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aCCLDisallowedList | This is a list of | Type: | | | ACCLDisallowe | ACCL | | | dAttributesparameter | DisallowedAttributes | | | identifies the list | | | | of ManagedElement or | multiplicity: 1..* | | | Subnetwork | | | | identified with | isOrdered: TrueFalse | | | Man | | | | agedEntityIdentifier | isUnique: True | | | and corresponding | | | | attributes that are | defaultValue: NA | | | not allowed to be | | | | modified by an ACCL. | allowedValues: NA | | | | | | | Allowed values: not | isNullable: True | | | applicable | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | a | The indication of | type: IntegerString | | ssuranceGoalStatusId | the | | | | AssuranceGoalStatus. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ass | The indication of | type: IntegerString | | uranceTargetStatusId | the | | | | As | multiplicity: 1 | | | suranceTargetStatus. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ass | This is an attribute | type: | | uranceGoalStatusList | containing a list of | AssuranceGoalStatus | | | assuranceGoalStatus | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assur | This is an attribute | type: | | anceTargetStatusList | containing a list of | A | | | a | ssuranceTargetStatus | | | ssuranceTargetStatus | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | assuranceGoalDnId | It holds the | type: Dn | | | identity in | | | | AssuranceGoalStatus | multiplicity: 1 | | | that uniquely | | | | identifies the | isOrdered: N/A | | | corresponding Dn of | | | | the AssuranceGoal | isUnique: N/A | | | instance for which | | | | the | defaultValue: None | | | assuranceGoalStatus | | | | applies | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Void | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Void | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 4.1.2.4.2 Constraints
No constraints have been identified for this document.
##### 4.1.2.4.3 Notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [7], that
provisioning management service consumer can receive. The notification
parameter objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [10], would capture the DN of
an instance of an IOC defined in the present document.
#### 4.1.2.5 Common notifications
##### 4.1.2.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [7], that
an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in TS 32.302 [8], shall capture the DN of
an instance of a class defined in the present document.
Name Qualifier Notes
* * *
notifyNewAlarm M -- notifyClearedAlarm M -- notifyAckStateChanged M --
notifyAlarmListRebuilt M -- notifyChangedAlarm O --
notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged O -- notifyChangedAlarmGeneral O --
notifyComments O -- notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList O --
##### 4.1.2.5.2 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in TS 28.532 [7], that
an MnS consumer may receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in TS 32.302 [8], shall capture the DN of
an instance of a class defined in the present document.
Name Qualifier Notes
* * *
notifyMOICreation O -- notifyMOIDeletion O -- notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges O
-- notifyMOIChanges O -- notifyEvent O --
### 4.1.3 Procedures
#### 4.1.3.1 SLS Assurance Procedure
Figure 4.1.3.1.1 SLS assurance procedure
For the purpose of the procedure shown in Figure 4.1.3.1.1 \"entities
participating in the loop\" refers to any entity in the 3GPP management system
responsible for the functioning of an ACCL to ensure the
AssuranceControlLoopGoal required by an AssuranceControlLoop_Consumer.
1\. AssuranceControlLoop_consumer derives AssuranceControlLoopGoal from the
ServiceProfile or SliceProfile.
2\. AssuranceControlLoop_consumer provides the AssuranceControlLoopGoal to
Entities_Participating_in_loop by utilizing the provision management services
defined in as defined in clause 11.1.1.3 of TS 28.532 [7].
NOTE 1: In case the Entities_Participating_in_loop represents
CrossDomain_Entities_Participating_in_loop, the AssuranceControlLoopGoal is
the attribute(s) of the ServiceProfile. In case the
Entities_Participating_in_loop represents
Domain_Entities_Participating_in_loop, the AssuranceControlLoopGoal is the
attribute(s) of the SliceProfile.
3\. Entities_Participating_in_loop subscribes the related performance data
(e.g., the packet delay related measurements), fault data, QoE data (e.g.,
buffer level) and MDT data from respective sources by utilizing the Operation
establishStreamingConnection as defined in clause 6.2.1 of TS 28.550 [3].
4\. Entities_Participating_in_loop, optionally, subscribes the related
analytical data from MDAS producer or network functions, e.g., NWDAF. In case
of NWDAF as a provider, Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service as defined in clause
4.2 of TS 29.520 [11] is used.
5\. Entities_Participating_in_loop collects the related performance, fault,
QoE and MDT data (e.g., the packet delay related measurements), fault data,
QoE data (e.g., buffer level) and MDT data from respective sources by
utilizing the Operation establishStreamingConnection as defined in clause
6.2.1 of TS 28.550 [3].
6\. Entities_Participating_in_loop, optionally, collects the related
analytical data from MDAS producer or network functions, e.g., NWDAF. In case
of NWDAF as a provider, Nnwdaf_EventsSubscription Service as defined in clause
4.2 of TS 29.520 [11] is used.
7\. Entities_Participating_in_loop assesses if the AssuranceControlLoopGoal
has been fulfilled.
8\. Entities_Participating_in_loop assesses if and which action to take in
case the AssuranceControlLoopGoal has not been fulfilled.
9\. As per the mitigation action (e.g., scale out) resources are changed, the
generic provisioning management service as defined in clause 11.1 of TS 28.532
[7] is utilized for the same.
10\. Action completed.
NOTE 2: The Entities_Participating_in_loop continues to monitor and analyse
the performance and perform the adjustment until the attribute(s) of
SliceProfile is assured.
11\. AssuranceControlLoop_consumer receives the confirmation of assurance
fulfilment from Entities_Participating_in_loop by utilizing the provision
management services defined in clause 11.1.1.3 of TS 28.532 [7].
## 4.2 Stage 3
### 4.2.1 Solution Set (SS) for JSON/YAML
The JSON/YAML solution set is documented in clause B.2.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Control loop deployed in different layers
## A.1 Introduction
This example gives a high-level view of control loops deployed in different
layers, which consists of control loop in communication service layer, control
loop in network slice layer, control loop in network slice subnet layer and
control loop in NF layer, as described as Figure A.1.1, where the analytic
could be leverage MDAS, and different control loops can provide input
(interact with) to other control loops (in the same layer or different layers)
and obtain the output from other control loops (in the same layer or different
layers).
{width="4.7in" height="2.8in"}
Figure A.1.1: Control loop in different layers
## A.2 Control loop in communication service layer
SLA/SLS requirements provided from CSC are translated into serviceProfile,
which represents the requirements for communication service assurance to the
CSP. Coordination between control loop in communication service layer and
control loop in network slice layer is needed to calculate the communication
service resource requirements and to assure the communication service SLA/SLS
requirements.
When the communication service is active, network slice performance is
monitored and analysed for the communication service according to end user
service experiences.
If service degradation occurs or it is predicted, the 3GPP management system
could take actions, i.e. the allocated resources are scaled up or the SLS is
adjusted based on pre-agreement/interaction between CSP and CSC.
## A.3 Control loop in network slice layer
After receiving SLA/SLS requirements from service profile and completing the
network slice provisioning, the network slice performance (e.g. KPI, QoE) are
monitored and reported. Compared to the SLA/SLS requirements from service
profile, when network slice performance is not met, the 3GPP management system
identifies the root cause and may reconfigure the resources according to
analytical report from MDAS producer. The network slice resources are also
modified accordantly in case the network slice performance requirement needs
to be changed based on communication service requirement adjustment.
## A.4 Control loop in network slice subnet layer
After decomposing service profile to slice profile, the performance
requirements for each network slice subnet are obtained. The 3GPP management
system could have the capability of service observation (e.g., the supervision
to the NSSI) based on MDAS. Based on such observation and comparison with
initial subnet performance requirements, management actions on the NSSI might
be performed if NSSI performance requirements fulfillment indicates a problem.
Another possible scenario is that, when the NSSI performance requirement is
changed because of the network slice modification management action, the NSSI
resources might be also reconfigured.
## A.5 Control loop in NF layer
NOTE: The control loop in NF layer is not addressed in the present document.
###### ## Annex B (normative): OpenAPI definition of the COSLA NRM
# B.1 General
This annex contains the OpenAPI definition of the COSLA NRM in YAML format.
The Information Service (IS) of the COSLA NRM is defined in clause 4.
Mapping rules to produce the OpenAPI definition based on the IS are defined in
TS 32.160 [10].
# B.2 Solution Set (SS) definitions
## B.2.1 OpenAPI document \" TS28536_CoslaNrm.yml\"
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
title: coslaNrm
version: 17.3.0
description: >-
OAS 3.0.1 specification of the Cosla NRM
© 2020, 3GPP Organizational Partners (ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA,
TTC).
All rights reserved.
externalDocs:
description: 3GPP TS 28.536 V17.3.0; Cosla NRM
url: http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/28_series/28.536/
paths: {}
components:
schemas:
#------------ Type definitions
\---------------------------------------------------
ControlLoopLifeCyclePhase:
type: string
enum:
\- PREPARATION
\- COMMISSIONING
\- OPERATION
\- DECOMMISSIONING
ObservationTime:
type: integer
AssuranceGoalStatusObserved:
type: string
enum:
\- FULFILLED
\- NOT_FULFILLED
AssuranceGoalStatusPredicted:
type: string
enum:
\- FULFILLED
\- NOT_FULFILLED
AssuranceTargetStatusObserved:
type: string
enum:
\- FULFILLED
\- NOT_FULFILLED
AssuranceTargetStatusPredicted:
type: string
enum:
\- FULFILLED
\- NOT_FULFILLED
AssuranceTargetName:
type: string
AssuranceTarget:
type: object
properties:
assuranceTargetName:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetName\'
assuranceTargetValue:
type: string
AssuranceTargetList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTarget\'
AssuranceGoalStatus:
type: object
properties:
assuranceGoalStatusId:
type: string
assuranceGoalId:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
assuranceGoalStatusObserved:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoalStatusObserved\'
assuranceGoalStatusPredicted:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoalStatusPredicted\'
assuranceGoalRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
AssuranceGoalStatusList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoalStatus\'
AssuranceTargetStatus:
type: object
properties:
assuranceTargetStatusId:
type: string
assuranceTargetName:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetName\'
assuranceTargetStatusObserved:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetStatusObserved\'
assuranceTargetStatusPredicted:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetStatusPredicted\'
AssuranceTargetStatusList:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetStatus\'
AttributeNameList:
type: array
items:
type: string
ACCLDisallowedAttributes:
type: object
properties:
managedEntityIdentifier:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
attributeNameList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AttributeNameList\'
AssuranceScope:
type: object
properties:
taiList:
\$ref: \'TS28541_NrNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/TaiList\'
#-------- Definition of concrete IOCs
\--------------------------------------------
MnS:
oneOf:
\- type: object
properties:
SubNetwork:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Multiple\'
\- type: object
properties:
ManagedElement:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Multiple\'
SubNetwork-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Attr\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
AssuranceClosedControlLoop:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Multiple\'
ManagedElement-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Attr\'
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-ncO\'
\- type: object
properties:
AssuranceClosedControlLoop:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Multiple\'
AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
type: object
properties:
operationalState:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/OperationalState\'
administrativeState:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/AdministrativeState\'
controlLoopLifeCyclePhase:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ControlLoopLifeCyclePhase\'
aCCLDisallowedList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ACCLDisallowedAttributes\'
AssuranceGoal:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoal-Multiple\'
networkSliceRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
networkSliceSubnetRef:
\$ref: \'TS28623_ComDefs.yaml#/components/schemas/Dn\'
AssuranceGoal-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- type: object
properties:
observationTime:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ObservationTime\'
assuranceTargetList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceTargetList\'
assuranceScope:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceScope\'
serviceProfileId:
type: string
sliceProfileId:
type: string
AssuranceReport-Single:
allOf:
\- \$ref: \'TS28623_GenericNrm.yaml#/components/schemas/Top\'
\- type: object
properties:
attributes:
allOf:
\- type: object
properties:
assuranceGoalStatusList:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoalStatusList\'
#-------- Definition of JSON arrays for name-contained IOCs
\----------------------
SubNetwork-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
ManagedElement-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Single\'
AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Single\'
AssuranceGoal-Multiple:
type: array
items:
\$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoal-Single\'
#------------ Definitions in TS 28.536 for TS 28.623
\-----------------------------
resources-coslaNrm:
oneOf:
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/MnS\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceClosedControlLoop-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceGoal-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/AssuranceReport-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/SubNetwork-Single\'
\- \$ref: \'#/components/schemas/ManagedElement-Single\'
###### ## Annex C (normative): AssuranceClosedControlLoop state management
An AssuranceClosedControlLoop is a logical object in the management system
that represents complex interaction between the assurance information and
configuration information of a grouping of resources. At any time, the
management system needs to know the state of an AssuranceClosedControlLoop.
The ITU-T X.731 [15], to which [14] refers, has defined the inter-relation
between the administrative state and operational state of systems in general.
Figure X.1 shows the state diagram of an AssuranceClosedControlLoop, where the
number in the Figure identify the state changes. The explanations for the
state changes are described in Table C.1.
Figure C.1: AssuranceClosedControlLoop state diagram
In an AssuranceClosedControlLoop deployment scenario, the interactions between
various management services allow the reconfiguration of the resources
controlled by the AssuranceClosedControlLoop based on predefined goal(s). The
interactions specified under the column \"The state transition events and
actions\" of Table C.1 shall be present for the state transition.
Table C.1: The AssuranceClosedControlLoop state transition table
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Trigger number | The state transition | State | | | events and actions | | +================+=========================+=========================+ | 0 | The Assurance MnS | Locked & Disabled | | | producer responds | | | | positively to the | | | | "create ACCL\" message, | | | | the ACCL is created and | | | | the state is set to | | | | Locked | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | The Assurance MnS | _Locked & Enabled_ | | | producer has assurance | | | | goals to fulfil and | | | | starts or resumes | | | | operation by setting | | | | the operational state | | | | to Enabled | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 2 | The Assurance MnS | _Locked_ | | | consumer suspends | | | | operation of the ACCL | _(Enabled or Disabled)_ | | | by setting the | | | | adminstrative state to | | | | Locked | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 3 | The Assurance MnS | _Unlocked_ | | | consumer resumes | | | | operation of the ACCL | _(Enabled or Disabled)_ | | | by setting the | | | | administrative state to | | | | Unlocked. | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 4 | The Assurance MnS | _Disabled_ | | | producer does not have | | | | any assurance goals to | _(Locked or Unlocked)_ | | | fulfil and suspends | | | | operation by setting | | | | the operational state | | | | to Disabled | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 5 | The Assurance MnS | _NULL_ | | | producer responds | | | | positively to the | | | | "delete ACCL\" message, | | | | the ACCL is deleted, | | | | and the state is set to | | | | NULL (the Initial and | | | | Final state) | | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
NOTE: The trigger numbers in the first column represent the state changes in
Figure C.1
###### ## Annex D (informative): Appendix with UML code for model diagrams
# D.1 UML code for Figure 4.1.2.2.1.1
\@startuml
skinparam backgroundColor white
skinparam classBackgroundColor white
skinparam classBorderColor black
skinparam Shadowing false
skinparam noteBackgroundColor white
skinparam noteBorderColor black
skinparam Note1BorderColor red
skinparam arrowColor black
hide circle
hide members
class SubNetwork \>
class ManagedElement \>
class AssuranceClosedControlLoop \>
class AssuranceGoal \>
class NetworkSlice \>
class NetworkSliceSubnet \>
SubNetwork \"1\" *-- \"*\" AssuranceClosedControlLoop: \>
ManagedElement \"1\" *-- \"*\" AssuranceClosedControlLoop: \>
AssuranceClosedControlLoop \"1\" *-left- \"*\" AssuranceGoal: \>
AssuranceClosedControlLoop \"*\" --> \"1\" NetworkSlice
AssuranceClosedControlLoop \"*\" --> \"1\" NetworkSliceSubnet
note \"{xor}\" as Note1
Note1 .. (SubNetwork, AssuranceClosedControlLoop)
Note1 .. (ManagedElement, AssuranceClosedControlLoop)
\@enduml
# D.2 UML code for Figure 4.1.2.2.2.1
\@startuml
skinparam backgroundColor white
skinparam classBackgroundColor white
skinparam classBorderColor black
skinparam Shadowing false
skinparam noteBackgroundColor white
skinparam noteBorderColor black
skinparam Note1BorderColor red
skinparam arrowColor black
hide circle
hide members
class Top \>
class AssuranceClosedControlLoop \>
class AssuranceGoal \>
Top \<\|-- AssuranceClosedControlLoop
Top \<\|-- AssuranceGoal
\@enduml
#