# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects
Management and orchestration of networks, as identified below:
**TS 28.540: Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network Resource
Model (NRM); Stage 1.**
> TS 28.541: Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network Resource
> Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the requirements for the Network Resource Model
(NRM) definition of NR, NG-RAN, 5G Core Network (5GC) and network slice, to
support the management for:
\- variety of 5G radio access network functions and features, covering
management for NR connectivity options defined in 3GPP TS 37.340 [5] and NG-
RAN architectural options defined in 3GPP TS 38.401 [4].
\- variety of 5GC network functions and features defined in 3GPP TS 23.501
[2].
\- network slice and network slice subnet.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks;
Provisioning\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[8] GSMA NG.116 -- \"Generic Network Slice Template\" v1.0 (2019-05-23).
[9] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**5G Core Network:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**AMF Region:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**AMF Set:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]**.**
**en-gNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 37.340 [5].
**gNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 [3].
**gNB Central Unit (gNB-CU):** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.401 [4].
**gNB-CU-Control Plane (gNB-CU-CP):** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.401 [4].
**gNB-CU-User Plane (gNB-CU-UP):** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.401 [4].
**gNB Distributed Unit (gNB-DU):** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.401 [4].
**ng-eNB:** Defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 [3].
**NG-RAN:** Defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core network
5GS 5G System
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
EPS Evolved Packet System
MR-DC Multi-RAT Dual Connectivity
NG-RAN NG Radio Access Network
NR New Radio
PCF Policy Control Function
UDM Unified Data Management
UDR Unified Data Repository
UDSF Unstructured Data Storage Function
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 NR and NG-RAN deployment scenarios
According to NG-RAN architecture defined in 3GPP TS 38.300 [3], An NG-RAN node
is either a gNB or an ng-eNB connected to 5GC.
A gNB may consist of a gNB-CU and one or more gNB-DU(s), and a gNB-CU may
consist of a gNB-CU-CP and one or more gNB-CU-UP. From functional split point
of view, there have following gNB deployment scenarios which are specified in
3GPP TS 38.401 [4]:
1) gNB which does not consist split function.
2) gNB which consists of gNB-CU and gNB-DU(s).
3) gNB which consists of gNB-CU-CP, gNB-CU-UP(s) and gNB-DU(s).
Abovementioned deployment scenarios apply to en-gNB also.
Part of gNB (e.g. gNB-CU) can be deployed as virtualized network function.
## 4.2 MR-DC
Besides single connectivity operation, E-UTRAN, NR and NG-RAN support Multi-
RAT Dual Connectivity (MR-DC) operation defined in 3GPP TS 37.340 [5], which
can be further divided into following two categories based on connected core
network types.
1) MR-DC with the EPC via EN-DC, the NR node in EN-DC is called en-gNB.
2) MR-DC with the 5GC via either NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (NGEN-DC)
or NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity (NE-DC).
There are different user plane connectivity options of the master node and
secondary node involved in MR-DC (see detail in 3GPP TS 37.340 [5]).
## 4.3 5GC architecture
The 5G architecture is defined as service-based and the interaction between
network functions is represented in the following two ways:
\- Service-based representation
\- Reference point representation
The network functions composed 5GC is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2], network
functions within the 5GC control plane shall only use service-based interfaces
for their interactions.
## 4.4 Data storage architecture
5G system architecture allows UDM, PCF and NEF to store their data in the
Unified Data Repository (UDR), and allows any NF to store and retrieve its
unstructured data (e.g. UE context) into/from a UDSF.
## 4.5 AMF load balancing insides AMF Region/AMF Set
When deploying AMF Region or AMF Set, AMF load balancing insides AMF
Region/AMF Set is achieved by setting a weight factor for each AMF according
to its relative capacity compared to other AMFs, see detail in clause 5.19.3
of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
## 4.6 5GC NFs supporting edge computing
Edge computing enables operator and 3rd party services to be hosted close to
the UE\'s access point of attachment, so as to achieve an efficient service
delivery through the reduced end-to-end latency and load on the transport
network, see details in clause 5.13 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
## 4.7 General information for network slice instance and network slice subnet
instance
The general information used to describe network slice instance and network
slice subnet instance are specified in TS 28.531 [6].
## 4.8 Remote Interference Management
A remote interference scenario may involve a number of victim and aggressor
cells, where the gNBs execute Remote Interference Management (RIM)
coordination on behalf of their respective cells. Aggressor and victim gNBs or
cells can be grouped into semi-static sets, where each cell is assigned a set
ID, and is configured with a RIM Reference Signal (RIM-RS) and the radio
resources associated with the set ID. As defined in TS 38.300 [3].
## 4.9 Access Control
Access control ensures that an MnS provided by an MnS producer can be consumed
only by an authenticated entity with appropriate authorization as specified in
TS 28.533 [9].
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Requirements for management of NG-RAN
The following specific requirements apply to NG-RAN:
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions shall support management of NG-
RAN, containing gNB or/and ng-eNB.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
either gNB without split function or gNB with split functions defined in 3GPP
TS 38.401 [4].
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
virtualized network functions that are part of gNB, e.g. virtualized gNB-CU.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-004:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
intra-NG-RAN handover between any combinations of gNB and ng-eNB.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-005:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
inter-system handover between 5GS and EPS.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-006:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
network slicing feature in NG-RAN.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-007:** The NRM definitions shall have a read-only
representation of NR beam properties in NG-RAN.
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-008:** The NRM definitions shall support configuration of
sector carrier coverage properties in NG-RAN. [ ]{.underline}
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-009:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
radio access network sharing feature in NG-RAN. [ ]{.underline}
## 5.2 Requirements for management of MR-DC
The following specific requirements apply to MR-DC management, including
management of NR in EN-DC and other MR-DC operations.
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions shall support management of NR
node in EN-DC operation (en-gNB).
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM definitions shall support management of en-
gNB with different user plane connectivity options defined in 3GPP TS 37.340
[5].
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM definitions shall support management of NG-
RAN nodes in NGEN-DC operation.
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-004:** The NRM definitions shall support management
different user plane connectivity options in NGEN-DC operation defined in 3GPP
TS 37.340 [5].
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-005:** The NRM definitions shall support management of NG-
RAN nodes in EN-DC operation.
**REQ-MRDC_NRM-CON-006:** The NRM definitions shall support management
different user plane connectivity options in NE-DC operation defined in 3GPP
TS 37.340 [5].
## 5.3 Requirements for management of 5GC NFs
The following specific requirements apply to management of 5GC NFs:
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions shall support management of 5GC
containing variety of network functions defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM definitions should support management of all
the relationships between network functions and corresponding data storage
functions where the network functions store/retrieve their data.
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
interworking between 5GC and EPC.
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-004:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
network slicing feature in 5GC.
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-005:** The NRM definitions shall support management of 5GC
network function services independently to align with requirements of 3GPP TS
23.501 [2].
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-006:** The NRM definitions shall support NF service instance
registration, deregistration, update, etc., with NRF during NF service
instance lifecycle to align with requirements of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP
TS 23.502 [x].
**REQ-5GC_NRM-CON-007:** The NRM definitions shall support configuration of NF
profile for NF Service registration and discovery to align with requirements
of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [7].
## 5.4 Requirements for management of AMF Set
**REQ-AMFSET_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
AMF Region and AMF Set, including AMF load balancing management.
## 5.5 Requirements for management of edge computing
**REQ-ECM_NRM-CON-001** The NRM definitions shall support management of 5GC
NFs supporting edge computing.
## 5.6 Requirements for management of network slice and network slice subnet
The following requirements apply to network slice and network slice subnet:
**REQ-NS_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
network slice.
**REQ-NS_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM definitions shall support management of
network slice subnet.
**REQ-NS_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM definitions shall support the attributes of
the Generic network Slice Template (GST) defined by GSMA [8].
NOTE: The NEST attributes values represent the SLS requirements for a network
slice. These attribute values are used as input for network slice SLA
management related activities.
## 5.7 Requirements Remote Interference Management
**REQ-NGRAN_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions should support Remote
Interference Management.
## 5.8 Requirements MnS Access Control
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM definitions should support MnS Access
Control.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM definitions should support MnS Access
Control identity information.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-003:** The NRM definitions should support MnS
authentication services.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-004:** The NRM definitions should support MnS authorization
services.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-005:** The MnS Access Control policies should support
authorization at MOI level.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-006:** The MnS Access Control policies should support
authorization at MOI attribute level.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-007:** The MnS Access Control policies should support
authorization of operations.
**REQ-MSAC_NRM-CON-008:** The MnS Access Control policies should support
authorization of notifications.
#