# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In drafting the TS/TR, pay particular attention to the use of modal auxiliary
verbs! TRs shall not contain any normative provisions.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects
Management and orchestration of networks, as identified below:
TS 28.555: Management and orchestration; Network policy management for 5G
mobile networks; Stage 1 [2].
> **TS 28.556: Management and orchestration; Network policy management for 5G
> mobile networks; Stage 2 and stage 3 [3].**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies policy management procedures, stage 2 and stage
3 for policy MnS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.555: \"Management and orchestration; Network policy management
for 5G mobile networks; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.556: \"Management and orchestration; Network policy management
for 5G mobile networks; Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (02/92): \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Policy management procedures
## 4.1 Policy Creation
The Figure 4.1-1 illustrates the procedure for creating a new policy.
{width="4.493055555555555in" height="1.3819444444444444in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Procedure for creating a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to create a policy instance to MnS Producer
for the new policy to be created(see createMOI operation defined in TS 28.532
[4]). Based on the request, the MnS Producer creates the concrete policy MOI].
2) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer(see createMOI operation
defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
## 4.2 Policy Deletion
The Figure 4.2-1 illustrates the procedure for deleting a policy.
{width="4.236111111111111in" height="1.0416666666666667in"}
Figure 4.2-1: Procedure for deleting a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to delete a policy instance(see deleteMOI
operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]) to MnS Producer.
2) Based on the request, the MnS Producer deletes the concrete policy MOI
(i.e. instance of policy IOC).
3) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer(see deleteMOI operation
defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
## 4.3 Policy Update
The Figure 4.3-1 illustrates the procedure for updating a policy.
{width="4.354166666666667in" height="1.25in"}
Figure 4.3-1: Procedure for updating a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to update a policy instance to MnS
Producer(see modifyMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
2) Based on the request, the MnS Producer updates the concrete policy MOI
(i.e. instance of policy IOC).
3) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer(see modifyMOIAttributes
operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
## 4.4 Policy Query
The Figure 4.4-1 illustrates the procedure for querying a new policy.
{width="3.9791666666666665in" height="1.1319444444444444in"}
Figure 4.4-1: Procedure for querying a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to query a policy instance to MnS Producer(see
getMOIAttributes operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
2) Based on the request, the MnS Producer queries the concrete policy MOI
(i.e. instance of policy IOC).
3) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS consumer(see getMOIAttributes
operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
## 4.5 Policy Conflicts Notification
The Figure 4.5-1 illustrates the procedure for notifying policy conflicts.
{width="5.756944444444445in" height="1.25in"}
Figure 4.5-1: Procedure for policy conflicts notification
1) 1. When MnS Producer receives new or updated policy (ies) from MnS
Consumer, it will check whether the each received policy is conflicts with the
previous storage policy.
2) 2. If the conflict is detected, MnS Producer will notify the information to
MnS Consumer(see notifyEvent operation defined in TS 28.532 [4]).
## 4.6 Policy Activation
The Figure 4.6-1 illustrates the procedure for activating a new policy.
{width="5.338888888888889in" height="1.582638888888889in"}
Figure 4.6-1: Procedure for activating a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to activate a policy instance to MnS Producer.
2) Based on the request, the MnS Producer activate the concrete policy MOI
(i.e. instance of policy IOC).
3) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS Consumer.
## 4.7 Policy Deactivation
The Figure 4.7-1 illustrates the procedure for deactivating a policy.
{width="5.311805555555556in" height="1.4652777777777777in"}
Figure 4.7-1: Procedure for deactivating a policy
1) MnS Consumer sends a request to deactivate a policy instance to MnS
Producer.
2) Based on the request, the MnS Producer deactivate the concrete policy MOI
(i.e. instance of policy IOC).
3) MnS Producer sends a response to the MnS Consumer.
# 5 Policy MnS -- Stage 2
## 5.1 Management operation for Policy (MnS component type A)
The operations (e.g. createMOI operations) and notifications (e.g.
notifyMOIcreation) of generic provisioning MnS defined in TS 28.532 [4] can be
used for policy lifecycle management. The policy can be treated as object
instance.
## 5.2 Information model definition entities for Policy
### 5.2.1 Imported information entities and local labels
Label reference Local label
* * *
TS 28.622 [5], IOC, Top Top TS 28.622 [5], IOC, SubNetwork SubNetwork
### 5.2.2 Class diagram
#### 5.2.2.1 Relationships
This clause introduces the set of information object classes (IOCs).
{width="2.017361111111111in" height="1.5777777777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1: Information Object Class UML Diagram
NOTE: The diagram maybe updated depending on the scenarios.
#### 5.2.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships.
{width="2.0972222222222223in" height="1.7152777777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2: Information Object Class UML Diagram
### 5.2.3 Class definitions
#### 5.2.3.1 Policy
##### 5.2.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents a network policy.
##### 5.2.3.1.2 Attributes
The Policy IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in TS
28.622) and the following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadble isWriteble isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
policyPriority M T T F T policyStatus M T T F T policyType M T T F T
policyContent M T T F T
#### 5.2.3.2 Notifications
##### 5.2.3.2.0 General
The Notifications include notifications (e.g. notifyMOIcreation) of generic
provisioning MnS defined in TS 28.532[4] and Notification
notifyPolicyConflict(5.2.3.2.1)
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Notification notifyPolicyConflict (CM)
##### 5.2.3.2.1.1 Definition {#definition-1 .H6}
This notification supports the policy conflict notification to be notified
when a new policy conflicts with the previous storage policy.
###### 5.2.3.2.1.2 Notification information
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parameter |** Qualifier**|** Information | **Comment** | | Name**| | Type** | | +================+===============+================+================+ | objectClass | M, Y | It shall carry | It indicates | | | | the | the class, | | | | ManagedEntity | whose instance | | | | class name. | emitted this | | | | | notification. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | objectInstance | M, Y | DN of the | It identifies | | | | instance of | the instance | | | | the | of the sender | | | | \"Ma | of this | | | | nagedElement\" | notification. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | notificationId | M, N | This is an | The unique | | | | identifier of | identifier of | | | | the | the | | | | notification, | notification | | | | which may be | across all | | | | used to | notifications | | | | correlate | sent by a | | | | notifications. | particular | | | | | management | | | | | service | | | | | producer | | | | | throughout the | | | | | time that | | | | | correlation is | | | | | significant. | | | | | | | | | | How | | | | | identifiers of | | | | | notifications | | | | | are re-used to | | | | | correlate | | | | | notifications | | | | | is outside of | | | | | the scope of | | | | | the present | | | | | document. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | eventTime | M, Y | It indicates | The semantics | | | | the event | of Generalised | | | | occurrence | Time specified | | | | time. | by ITU-T shall | | | | | be used here. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | systemDN | C | It shall carry | - | | | | the DN of | | | | | management | | | | | service | | | | | producers. | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | no | M, Y | \"notifyPo | The type of | | tificationType | | licyConflict\" | notification, | | | | | and it shall | | | | | be assigned to | | | | | \"notifyThres | | | | | holdCrossing\" | | | | | for this | | | | | notification. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | confl | M, Y | It specifies | c | | ictDescription | | the policy | onflictDetails | | | | conflict | shall convey | | | | details. | more | | | | | information | | | | | about the | | | | | conflict. | | | | | | | | | | Description of | | | | | the detected | | | | | policy | | | | | conflicts, | | | | | e.g. | | | | | conflicting | | | | | events, | | | | | conditions or | | | | | actions among | | | | | the policies. | | | | | Typically, | | | | | this is due to | | | | | the fact that | | | | | a policy is | | | | | executing, or | | | | | that Some | | | | | attributes | | | | | that require | | | | | policy | | | | | execution are | | | | | missing. | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.2.3.3 PolicyContent \>
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Definition
This data type represents the content of a network policy.
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Attributes
**Attribute name** **Support Qualifier** **isReadble** **isWriteble**
**isInvariant** **isNotifyable**
* * *
condition M T T F T action M T T F T
### 5.2.4 Information attribute definitions
#### 5.2.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines the semantics of the attributes used in IOCs.
#### 5.2.4.2 Definitions and legal values
+----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +================+=========================+=========================+ | policyPriority | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | priority of Policy. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowe | | | | dValues:LOW,Medium,High | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: Null | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | policyStatus | It specifies the status | type: ENUM | | | of Policy. If a policy | | | | is activated, and then | multiplicity: 1 | | | its status is | | | | activated. If it is | isOrdered: N/A | | | deactivated ,then its | | | | status is deactivated | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValue | defaultValue: | | | s:ACTIVATED,DEACTIVATED | DEACTIVATED | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | policyType | It specifies the type | type: string | | | of Policy. | | | | | multiplicity: 0..N | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | NOTE: Its value is not | | | | defined in the present | isUnique: N/A | | | document. | | | | | defaultValue: Null | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | policyContent | It identifies the | type: PolicyContent | | | content of a network | | | | policy | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | A policyContent | isOrdered: N/A | | | \> | | | | **condition** and | isUnique: N/A | | | **action**. | | | | | defaultValue: Null | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | condition | It identifies the | type: None | | | condition of the | | | | policy. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | The type of condition | isOrdered: N/A | | | depends on the concrete | | | | policy. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: Null | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | action | It identifies the | type: None | | | action of policy. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | The type of action | | | | depends on the concrete | isOrdered: N/A | | | policy. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: Null | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
# 6 Policy MnS -- Stage 3
## 6.1 RESTful HTTP-based solution set
### 6.1.1 Mapping of operations
#### 6.1.1.1 Introduction
The IS operations are mapped to SS equivalents according to table 6.1.1.1-1.
Table 6.1.1.1-1: Mapping of IS operations to SS equivalents
+------------------+-----------------+------------------+--------+ | **IS operation** | **HTTP Method** | **Resource URI** | **SQ** | +==================+=================+==================+========+ | createMOI | PUT | htt | M | | | | p://{URI-DN-pref | | | | | ix}/{root}/PoliM | | | | | nS/{MnSVersion}/ | | | | | { | | | | | LDN-first-part}/ | | | | | {className}={id} | | +------------------+-----------------+------------------+--------+ | getMOIAttributes | GET | http | M | | | | ://{URI-DN-PREFI | | | | | X}/{root}/PoliMn | | | | | S/{MnSVersion}/{ | | | | | LDN-first-part}/ | | | | | {className}={id} | | +------------------+-----------------+------------------+--------+ | mod | PUT | http | M | | ifyMOIAttributes | | ://{URI-DN-prefi | | | | PATCH | x}/{root}/PoliMn | | | | | S/{MnSVersion}/{ | | | | | LDN-first-part}/ | | | | | {className}={id} | | +------------------+-----------------+------------------+--------+ | deleteMOI | DELETE | http | M | | | | ://{URI-DN-prefi | | | | | x}/{root}/PoliMn | | | | | S/{MnSVersion}/{ | | | | | LDN-first-part}/ | | | | | {className}={id} | | +------------------+-----------------+------------------+--------+
#### 6.1.1.2 Operation
The mapping of operations (e.g. createMOI operations) of generic provisioning
MnS defined in TS 28.532[4] can be used for policy lifecycle management.
### 6.1.2 Mapping of notifications
#### 6.1.2.1 Introduction
The IS notifications are mapped to SS equivalents according to table
6.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.1.2.1-1: Mapping of IS notifications to SS equivalents
**IS notifications** **HTTP Method** **Resource URI** **SQ**
* * *
notifyMOICreation POST /notificationSink M notifyMOIDeletion POST
/notificationSink M notifyMOIAttributeValueChange POST /notificationSink M
notifyMOIChanges POST /notificationSink M notifyPolicyConflict POST
/notificationSink M
#### 6.1.2.2 Notification
##### 6.1.2.2.0 General
The mapping of notifications (e.g. notifyMOICreation) of generic provisioning
MnS defined in TS 28.532[4] and notifyPolicyConflict(6.1.1.2.1) can be used
for policy lifecycle management.
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Notification \"notifyPolicyConflict\"
The IS notification parameters are mapped to SS equivalents according to table
6.1.1.2.1-1.
Table 6.1.1.2.1-1: Mapping of IS notification input parameters to SS
equivalents (HTTP POST)
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | **IS |** SS | **SS |** SS | **SQ** | | operation | parameter | parameter | parameter | | | parameter | location**| name** | type**| | | name** | | | | | +==============+==============+==============+==============+========+ | objectClass | request body | href | uri-Type | M | | | | | | | | ob | | | | | | jectInstance | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | no | request body | no | notific | M | | tificationId | | tificationId | ationId-Type | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | noti | request body | noti | notifica | M | | ficationType | | ficationType | tionTyp-Type | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | eventTime | request body | eventTime | d | M | | | | | ateTime-Type | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | systemDN | request body | systemDN | s | M | | | | | ystemDN-Type | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | conflic | request body | conflic | conflictDesc | M | | tDescription | | tDescription | ription-Type | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
### 6.1.3 Resources
The resources of generic provisioning MnS defined in TS 28.532 [4] can be used
for policy lifecycle management.
### 6.1.4 Data type definitions
#### 6.1.4.1 Query, message body and resource data types
##### 6.1.4.1.0 General
Query, message body and resource data types of generic provisioning MnS
defined in TS 28.532 [4] and the following definitions can be used for policy
lifecycle management.
##### 6.1.4.1.1 Notification \"notifyPolicyConflict\"
Table 6.1.4.1.1-1: Definition of type notifyPolicyConflict-NotifType
**Attribute name** **Data type** **Description** **SQ**
* * *
href uri-Type URI of the resource where the event (alarm) occurred M
notificationId notificationId-Type Notification identifier as defined in ITU-T
Rec. X. 733 [6] M notificationType notificationType-Type Notification type
(notifyPolicyConflict) M eventTime dateTime-Type Event (PolicyConflict)
occurrence time M systemDN systemDN-Type System DN M correlatedNotifications
array(correlatedNotification-Type) Set of all notifications to which this
notification is considered to be correlated as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733
[6] O additionalText additionalText-Type Allows a free form text description
to be reported as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [6] O sourceIndicator
sourceIndicator-Type Indicates the source of the operation that led to the
generation of this notification. O attributeList map(anyValue) The attributes
(name/value pairs) of the conflicting MOI. O
#### 6.1.4.2 Referenced structured data types
The referenced structured data types of generic provisioning MnS defined in TS
28.532 [4] can be used for policy lifecycle management.
#### 6.1.4.3 Simple data types and enumerations
##### 6.1.4.3.0 General
The simple data types and enumerations of generic provisioning MnS defined in
TS 28.532 [4], and the following simple data types and enumerations can be
used for policy lifecycle management.
##### 6.1.4.3.1 Simple data types
Table 6.1.4.3.1-1: Simple data types
Type name Type definition Description
* * *
conflictDescription-Type string Description of the policy conflict details.
##### 6.1.4.3.2 Enumeration notificationType-Type
Table 6.1.4.3.2-1: Enumeration notificationType-Type
Enumeration value Description
* * *
notifyPolicyConflict Notification type is notifyPolicyConflict
### 6.2 YANG/Netconf-based solution set
The YANG/Netconf based solution set of generic provisioning MnS defined in TS
28.532 [4] can be used for policy lifecycle management.
#