# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.627: "Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements"**
28.628: "**Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)"**
28.629: **"** Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource Model
(NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions"
# 1 Scope
The present document describes concept and requirements of SON Policy
management for Self-Optimization and SON coordination.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer; Measurements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] and the following
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TS 32.101 [1], TS 32.102 [2], TS
32.150 [3] and TR 21.905 [4], in that order.
**Target:** Target provides a clear basis for assessing performance of self-
optimization functions. Targets need to be carefully specified in terms of a
series of performance measurements and/or KPIs, which can be specific, and
which can be used also to identify problems. A target should be expressed in
terms of a specific value or specific value range. The present document does
not specify the specific value or desired value range of each target since
those should be set by operators according to their policy and different
network situation.
**Trigger condition: The condition at which self-optimization should be
triggered. Different self-optimization algorithms may have different trigger
conditions for achieving same objectives and targets.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAS Active Antenna System
CCO Coverage and Capacity Optimization
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
EM Element Manager
eNodeB evolved NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
HO Handover
ICIC Inter Cell Interference Coordination
LB Load Balancing
LTE Long Term Evolution
NE Network Element
NM Network Manager
NRM Network Resource Model
OAM Operation Administration Maintenance
PRB Physical Resource Block
RCEF RRC Connection Establishment Failure
RLF Radio Link Failure
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
SON Self Organizing Networks
UE User Equipment
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Overview
A self-optimization functionality will monitor input data such as performance
measurements, fault alarms, notifications etc. After analyzing the input data,
optimization decisions will be made according to the optimization algorithms.
Finally, corrective actions on the affected network node(s) will be triggered
automatically or manually when necessary.
IRPManager should be able to control the self-optimization procedures
according to the operator's objectives and targets.
The following diagram is illustrated how the self-optimization functionality
works:
Figure 4-1 Logical view of self-optimization procedure
The self-optimization functionality working procedure could be interpreted
logically as following:
1\. The self-optimization functionality keeps monitoring input data according
to the operator's objectives and targets.
2\. Whenever the objectives and targets are not met, optimization algorithms
will be triggered.
3\. Corrective actions are provided and executed.
4\. Then the self-optimization functionality evaluates the result of the
executed corrective actions.
a) If the system status is not satisfactory after the corrective actions'
execution, fallback may be needed to reverse the system configuration to the
previous status, which is before the corrective actions executed.
b) If the system status is satisfactory after the corrective actions'
execution, the one time self-optimization procedure ends.
5\. Self-optimization functionality returns to monitoring the input data.
## 4.2 Self-Optimization Concept
### 4.2.1 Logical Function Blocks
#### 4.2.1.1 Self-Optimization Input Monitoring Function (SO_MON_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO1].
#### 4.2.1.2 Triggering Optimization Function (TG_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO2], [SO3].
#### 4.2.1.3 Optimization Fallback Function (O_FB_F)
This functional bloc supports the following functions: [SO7], [SO9], [SO10].
#### 4.2.1.4 Self-Optimization Progress Update Function (SO_PGS_UF)
This function updates the self-optimization progress and important events to
the operator: [SO11]
#### 4.2.1.5 NRM IRP Update Function (NRM_UF)
This function updates the E-UTRAN and EPC NRM IRP with the optimization
modification if needed.
#### 4.2.1.6 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function (SO_MMF)
This function monitors the self-optimization process and provides the operator
with this information. This function must be able to get information about all
other functional blocs. In addition to this it allows the operator to control
the execution of the self-optimization process.
This function also resolves conflicts of different SON functions trying to
change or actually changing parameter values in different directions or
reports such conflicts, if they cannot be solved.
##### 4.2.1.6.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function
(SO_MMF_NM)
SO_MMF_NM (IRP Manager): representing the NM portion of SO_MMF (necessary
monitoring and limited interaction capabilities to support an automated
optimization), as well as related IRPManager functionality
In a centralized conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_NM identifies and
resolves conflicts.
In distributed and hybrid conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_NM sends policy
directions towards the SO_MMF_EM.
##### 4.2.1.6.2 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management Function
(SO_MMF_EM)
SO_MMF_EM (IRP Agent): representing the portion of SO_MMF operating below
Itf-N, as well as related IRPAgent functionality
In distributed and hybrid conflict resolution approach SO_MMF_EM identifies,
resolves and/or reports conflicts, according to the policy directions received
by SO_MMF_NM.
In case SO_MMF_EM is not able to solve a conflict, it will request the
SO_MMF_NM to resolve the conflict.
#### 4.2.1.7 Load Balancing Function (LB_F)
This function handles the load balancing optimization.
#### 4.2.1.8 Interference Control Function (IC_F)
This function handles the interference control optimization.
#### 4.2.1.9 Coverage and Capacity Function (CC_F)
This function handles the Coverage and Capacity Optimization.
#### 4.2.1.10 RACH Optimization Function (RACH_F)
This function handles the RACH optimization.
#### 4.2.1.11 HandOver Optimization Function (HO_F)
This function handles the handover optimization.
#### 4.2.1.12 NM centralized Coverage and Capacity Function (CC_F_NM)
This function represents the NM centralized Coverage and Capacity Optimization
(operating above Itf-N) as well as the related IRP Manager functionality.
CC_F_NM analyses monitoring data, determines improvement actions, sends
configuration data, and if necessary raises an operator action notification.
#### 4.2.1.13 Self-Optimization for AAS Function (SO_AAS_F)
This function handles the AAS optimization.
## 4.3 SON Coordination Concepts
When multiple SON functions attempt to change some (same or associated)
network configuration parameters of some (same or associated) nodes, one or
more of these SON functions may not be able to achieve the operator's
specified SON target(s) (for individual SON function) since they may have
conflicting demands on network resources. This situation is considered as "SON
functions in conflict" and requires conflict prevention or resolution.
Detection of "SON functions in conflict" can be Use Case specific (for
example, two SON functions make change at the same time or during the impact
time interval).
The associated network configuration parameters include parameters within the
same network element or parameters of different network elements with impact
between each other. For example, the associated parameters of one cell are the
parameters of its neighbour cells. Another typical association example is the
TX power, antenna azimuth and tilt of one cell are associated with each other.
Different SON functions may have dependencies with each other. The behaviour
of one SON function may have influence on other SON functions. For example,
CCO function may adjust the Neighbour Relation due to coverage optimization,
and then the changed NR will have an influence on Handover Parameter
Optimization function.
SON coordination is to detect, prevent or resolve conflicts or negative
influences between SON functions to make SON functions comply with operator's
policy.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.0 General
The following general and high-level requirement applies for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
d) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
e) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [6] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [6]
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-1** IRPManager shall be able to control the self-optimization
functions.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-2** The self-optimization complex corrective actions shall be
executed in a consistent and coordinated way.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-3** Self-optimization functions shall reuse existing
standardized solutions as much as possible.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-4** void
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-5** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to know the success or failure result of Self-Optimization.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-6** The trigger conditions of self-optimization functions
should be able to be managed by the IRPManager. The trigger condition may be
the scheduled time to start a self-optimization function or a period of time
during which a self-optimization function is forbidden to be started or the
event (i.e. do not meet objectives or targets) to start a self-optimization
function. Each self-optimization function shall have its own set of trigger
condition.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-7** For the self-optimization functions which need continuous
monitoring, the IRPManager should be able to manage the execution of self-
optimization actions (e.g. setting a period of time during which a self-
optimization action is forbidden to be executed).
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-8** Each self-optimization function shall have one or several
related performance indicator, which may be used as objective to evaluate the
performance before the self-optimization is initiated and after the self-
optimization function is completed.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-9** For operator controlled (open loop) SON function, the
IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing IRPManager to know the
information about the self-optimization actions. The necessity of this
capability will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-CON-10** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
IRPManager to know the information about the execution result of self-
optimization actions.
### 5.1.2 Load Balancing
**REQ-SO_LB-CON-1** The optimization of load balancing shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SO_LB-CON-2** The following scenarios shall be considered in
optimization of load balancing. Each scenario shall include the load balancing
on intra-frequency, inter-frequency, and inter-RAT.
1\. Overlapping Coverage
2\. Hierarchical Coverage
3\. Neighbouring Coverage
### 5.1.3 Handover (HO) Parameter optimization
**REQ-SO_HO-CON-1** HO parameter optimization shall be performed with no human
intervention as much as possible.
**REQ-SO_HO-CON-2** HO parameter optimization function shall aim at reducing
the number of HO failures as well as reducing inefficient use of network
resources due to unnecessary handovers. In particular, the HO parameter
optimization function shall aim at reducing the number of HO related failures
that cause degradation in user experience, such as call drops, radio link
failures before, during or shortly after HO, and reduced data rates.
### 5.1.4 Interference control
**REQ-SO_IC-CON-1** Interference control shall be performed with as little
human intervention as possible.
**REQ-SO_IC-CON-2** The following scenarios shall be considered in
interference control.
1\. Uplink inter cell interference coordination
2\. Downlink inter cell interference coordination
### 5.1.5 Coverage and Capacity optimization
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-1** Coverage and capacity optimization shall be performed with
minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-2 Operator shall be able to configure the objectives and
targets for the coverage and capacity optimization function.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-3 Operator shall be able to configure the objectives and
targets for the coverage and capacity optimization functions differently for
different areas of the network.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-4 The collection of data used as input into the coverage and
capacity optimization function shall be automated to the maximum extent
possible and shall require minimum possible amount of dedicated resources.**
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-5 The following scenarios shall be considered in coverage and
capacity optimization.**
1\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage
2\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes without any other radio coverage
3\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage
4\. E-UTRAN cells with too large coverage
**REQ-SO_CC-CON-6 The operator shall be able to manage tradeoffs between**
coverage and capacity using policies.
### 5.1.6 RACH optimization
**REQ-SO_RO-CON-1 RACH optimization shall be performed with minimal human
intervention.**
### 5.1.7 SON Coordination
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-1** SON coordination shall allow the prevention and
resolution of conflicts between SON functions.
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-2 In case the SON coordination function is below Itf-N,**
the IRPAgent should support the capability for the IRPManager to define
policies for the case that SON functions request conflicting parameter values.
In case no policy is given, the IRPAgent shall apply default policies.
Note: A policy describes an expected behaviour from the IRPAgent. Examples for
such policies:
i) Prioritizing SON functions in case of conflicts
ii) Assigning weights to SON targets
iii) Prohibiting further changes of a parameter for a certain amount of time
iv) Selecting preferred value ranges
v) Telling the IRPAgent to report conflicts
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-3 For the** case that the IRPAgent does not resolve the
case of SON functions requesting conflicting values for parameters, the
IRPAgent should support the capability for the IRPManager to decide about the
parameter values.
**REQ-SON_COORD-CON-4** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to configure the SON coordination policy. The coordination includes
the following aspects:
1) Coordination between SON functions below Itf-N and CM operations over
Itf-N.
2) Coordination between different SON functions.
### 5.1.8 Active Antenna System (AAS) management
**REQ-SO_AAS-CON-1** AAS operations (including Cell Splitting, Cell Merging,
Cell Shaping) shall be performed with no or minimal human intervention.
**REQ-SO_AAS-CON-2** Operator shall be able to configure and manage the new
split or merged cells (which is created from Cell Splitting or Cell Merging
operations) in automated manner.
**REQ-SO_AAS-CON-3** Operator shall be notified about the creation of split or
merged cells as soon as possible after they are split or merged from the
original cell(s).
**REQ-SO_AAS-CON-4** Operator shall be able to configure the shaped cell (due
to Cell Shaping operation) in automated manner with pre-defined alternative
coverage configurations.
**REQ-SO_AAS-CON-5** _The AAS operations (including Cell Splitting, Cell
Merging, Cell Shaping) shall be performed with coordination from OAM
configuration on neighbour eNBs, to keep coverage, inter-cell interference and
handover settings under control._
## 5.2 Actor roles
_Managed system: The entity performing an IRPAgent role._
_Managing system: The entity performing the IRPManager role._
## 5.3 Telecommunications Resources
_The managed E-UTRAN/EPC network equipments are viewed as relevant
telecommunications resources in this specification._
## 5.4 High-Level use case
### 5.4.1 Load Balancing
**1\. Overlapping Coverage**
In this scenario, two same size cells overlap each other. Cell A and cell B
both cover the same area. The load balancing between cell A and Cell B may be
considered. The load balancing could be carried out between Cell A and Cell B
regardless of the UE location within the coverage of the cells.
Figure 5.4.1-1: Overlapping Coverage
**Hierarchical Coverage**
In this scenario, two different size cells overlap each other. Cell B that has
a smaller area is covered totally by cell A, which has a bigger size. The load
balancing between cell A and Cell B may be considered. The load balancing
could be carried out from Cell B to Cell A regardless of the UE location
within the coverage of the cell B. Only UE located in the overlapping coverage
could be considered in the scenario of Cell A to Cell B.
Figure 5.4.1-2: Hierarchical Coverage
**Neighbouring Coverage**
In this scenario, there are some overlapped area between two neighbour cell A
and cell B. This is the usual neighbour cells scenario in EUTRAN. The load
balancing between cell A and Cell B may be considered. Load Balancing could
only be carried out for UE located in the overlapping coverage of Cell A and
Cell B.
Figure 5.4.1-3: Neighbouring Coverage
### 5.4.2 Interference control
**1\. Uplink inter cell interference coordination**
In this scenario, cell-edge UEs like UE A and B belong to different cell, and
they are assigned the same physical resource block (PRB). When they transmit
uplink messages, e.g. UE A sends message to its serving cell A, its neighbour
cell B may also receives it; UE B has a similar situation. Therefore, cell A
cannot judge which is signal-comes from UE A, and which is interference-comes
from UE B, so as cell B. In this situation, inter cell interference
coordination is essential to compensate for the system performance loss and
increase cell edge users' bit rate.
{width="4.872222222222222in" height="2.841666666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.2-1: Uplink Inter Cell Interference Coordination
**2\. Downlink inter cell interference coordination**
In this scenario, when UE located in cell-edge area, it is much adapted to
suffer downlink interference from its neighbour cell in case that there is
another UE occupying the same PRB in the same region belonging to its
neighbour cell. So downlink inter cell interference coordination is essential
to restrain interference and increase system capacity.
{width="5.125in" height="2.879166666666667in"}
Figure 5.4.2-2: Downlink inter cell interference coordination
### 5.4.3 Coverage and capacity optimization
Although, it is of primary interest to provide coverage to users during a
roll-out, it is equally important to enhance the capacity of the network
during operation. As such, both coverage and capacity are considered in the
use case and supported by the SON function. The CCO SON function should be
configured through appropriate objectives and targets in order to meet the
operator's requirement on coverage and capacity, and the prioritization
between them.
**1\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage**
In this scenario, legacy systems, e.g. 2G/3G provide radio coverage together
with E-UTRAN. However, in the first deployment stage of E-UTRAN, unsuitable
planning or error parameters settings will lead to coverage holes in some
area. In this scenario, there may be too many IRAT HOs. The SON use case
coverage and capacity optimization should enable to detect this kind of
problems on network coverage automatically. Another case similar with this is
that coverage problems exist between different frequencies in E-UTRAN, i.e.
inter-frequency case. For simple reasons, this case is also described here.
Figure 5.4.3-1: Coverage holes with 2G/3G coverage
**2\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes without any other radio coverage**
In this scenario, there is no 2G/3G coverage except E-UTRAN. In the first
deployment stage of E-UTRAN, unsuitable planning or error parameters settings
will lead to un-continuous coverage in some area. That will lead to many drop
calls because of bad coverage. The SON use case coverage and capacity
optimization should enable to detect this kind of problems on network coverage
automatically.
Figure 5.4.3-2: Coverage holes without any other radio coverage
**3\. E-UTRAN Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage**
In this scenario, the actual coverage area of an isolated island cell is
smaller than the planned isolated island cell area. The uncovered planned cell
area is the coverage holes that need to be detected and optimized by the
coverage and capacity optimization.
Figure 5.4.3-3: Coverage holes with isolated island cell coverage
**4\. E-UTRAN cells with too large coverage**
In this scenario, the operator does a gradual network evolution using LTE
cells in location where higher capacity is needed. Here the actual LTE
coverage is greater than the planned LTE coverage. The overflow area is shown
in figure 5.4.3.4. The problem with a too large coverage is that the planned
capacity may not be reached. As such, it is important to keep the coverage
within the planned area.
Figure 5.4.3-4: Difference between actual and planned LTE coverage
### 5.4.4 NM centralized Coverage and Capacity Optimization
#### 5.4.4.0 General
Annex B gives general descriptions related to the use cases is this section.
#### 5.4.4.1 Use case 1: Cell coverage adapting to traffic demand
Cell coverage is typically estimated at the time of network planning, where
exact distribution of users is hard to take into account. However, the service
performance as seen by the user will depend among others on the traffic load
in the particular cell, e.g. on the number of users that has to share the cell
resources at a particular location. Therefore, there may be a need to adapt
cell sizes to the typical distribution of traffic demand from time to time
when the distribution of users or the environmental situation are changing
(e.g. rush hours).
The CCO function needs to detect such service performance problems caused by
load imbalances, for which it may need to collect, for example, information
about number of active UEs, IP Throughput, Packet Delay, Drop, Loss Rate, Data
Volume measurements and environmental information (e.g. the location of
freeway, stadiums). The CCO function may also collect information of the
used/available capacity estimated by the eNodeB itself, based on resource
management algorithms implemented in the eNodeB. An example describing the UE
location distribution via two-dimensional bins measurements is shown in Annex
B.2.
Based on the collected information, the CCO function may decide to adjust
capacity or coverage areas of the related cells.
#### 5.4.4.2 Use case 2: Coverage and accessibility
Typically, the network has to provide basic coverage that ensures
accessibility and connectivity. Basic coverage could mean, for example, that a
certain level of signal strength should be reached in the cell area and
accessibility attempts, i.e. RRC connection attempts and random access
attempts must reach certain level of success rate.\ The CCO function may
collect RSRP/RSRQ measurements (with or without location information
included), RLF events, RRC setup failure reports and random access performance
measurements, which could be indications of bad coverage. To further separate
uplink and downlink related coverage problems, uplink interference, signal
quality and power measurements may be used. The different types of reports
related to the same incident and user should be possible to be correlated so
the CCO function can identify the source of the problem and can take the right
corrective action. A potential way is the correlation of uplink and/or
downlink MDT data (e.g. M2, M3) and RLF report data (e.g. RSRP/RSRQ) may be
used to analyze whether the RLF is caused by uplink coverage problem.
#### 5.4.4.3 Use case 3: LTE coverage holes with underlaid UTRAN/GERAN
LTE is typically deployed in areas with dense population in an attempt to
mitigate traffic congestion during the peak hours. Therefore, initial LTE
deployment may be patchy with underlaid UTRAN/GERAN networks that provide
basic coverage. Figure 5.4.4.3-1 shows that there may be coverage holes
between LTE cells.
Figure 5.4.4.3-1: LTE coverage hole with underlaid UTRAN/GERAN
The LTE coverage holes may be detected by the Inter-RAT measurements. The
network can capture measurements (e.g. RSRP, RSRQ, cell ID, location, time
stamp at the time of Inter-RAT handover), which can be collected for the CCO
function and used to identify coverage holes in the LTE network.
The LTE coverage holes may be detected also using measurements performed by
UEs in the idle mode.\ When an UE is in \"any cell selection\" or \"camped on
any cell\" state, the periodic logging stops.\ When the UE re-enters \"camped
normally\" state and the duration timer has not expired, the periodic logging
is restarted (see clause 5.1.1.2 of 3GPP TS 37.320 [7]).\ Figure 5.4.4.3-2 is
an example to show that an LTE coverage hole can be detected when an UE stops
and resumes logging MDT measurements.
Figure 5.4.4.3-2: LTE coverage holes with and without underlaid UTRAN detected
by logged MDT
#### 5.4.4.4 Use case 4: LTE Connection failure
While in idle mode UE enters an area of coverage problems (such as weak
coverage, overshoot coverage, pilot pollution and DL and UL channel coverage
mismatch etc.), the UE attempts to establish the RRC connection but fails
(RCEF report is logged).
{width="4.710416666666666in" height="3.2576388888888888in"}
Figure 5.4.4.4-1 Correlation of RCEF with MDT data
Another case is when the UE is in connected mode, loses the connection and
then tries to reconnect to the network but it fails.
{width="4.4527777777777775in" height="4.061111111111111in"}
Figure 5.4.4.4-2 Correlation of RLF and RCEF with MDT data
In both cases the CCO function would need to identify the reason of failure,
for which it may need to combine the logged RCEF report with other measurement
data, potentially including also measurements made by the RAN or with other
incidents and measurements reported by the UE (e.g. RLF report, RSRP/RSRQ
reports).\ For detailed analysis of connection failures and Coverage and
Capacity Optimization, all the different pieces of information connected to
the occurrence of the same incident need to be combined, and the combined data
will be used by the CCO function.
For detailed analysis of connection failures and CCO, information may be
required about the radio conditions of the network prior to and at the moment
when the connection failure occurs. In E-UTRAN this data may be collected e.g.
by utilizing the potentially enhanced Logged MDT and/or Immediate MDT
procedures depending on the specific failure scenario.
#### 5.4.4.5 Use case 5: Radio link quality
The service performance (e.g. throughput) as seen by the user is largely
dependent on the quality of the radio link (e.g. CQI, see 3GPP TS 36.213 [9]),
which is influenced by signal strength, interference, and other conditions.\
It should be possible for the CCO function to collect information about the
radio quality combined with user performance (e.g. IP throughput, CQI, UL
SINR) and determine whether the radio link is a bottleneck in service
performance. The CCO function may decide to change the signal strength of the
investigated cell or that of an interfering nearby cell e.g. by modifying
antenna tilt or power settings in order to improve radio link quality.
The CQI can be used as a direct indicator of the Signal to Interference and
Noise Ratio (SINR) conditions seen by the UE at actual data transmissions, for
which neither RSRP nor RSRQ (see 3GPP TS 36.214 [11]) would be suitable. Note
that RSRP is indicative only to the signal strength of the Reference Symbol
(RS), while RSRQ is derived from RSRP as the ratio of RSRP versus RSSI (i.e.
total received signal power in the RSSI measurement bandwidth), which is not
equal to SINR. Moreover RSRP and RSRQ are measured separately from actual user
plane transmissions, while CQI is measured and reported when data is actually
transmitted.
For example, by observing the UE reported CQI values during a collection
period (similarly to the collection period as used in case of existing MDT
measurements) it is possible to determine whether the UE was in a poor radio
condition at that time. Although the instantaneous CQI value is influenced by
fast link variations (e.g. by fast fading), the fast fluctuations are
typically around some centre value, which is characteristic to the particular
radio environment and can be used by the CCO function to evaluate radio link
quality.
Collecting the UE reported Rank Indicator (RI) in a similar way could be used
to evaluate radio link quality from spatial multiplexing point of view. The RI
reports give information about whether the UE has found the radio link quality
good enough to use spatial multiplexing.
### 5.4.5 SON for AAS
#### 5.4.5.1 General
## The Active Antenna Systems (AAS) can enable system optimization to be
adaptive to traffic demands and address network evolution issues through
flexible software re-configuration of the BS and antenna system.
SON mechanism with OAM support can be beneficial to optimize the inter-
operability of AAS operations for the following AAS capabilities:
1) Cell splitting.
2) Cell merging.
3) Cell Shaping.
#### 5.4.5.2 Use case 1: Cell splitting
Cell Splitting adopts higher order sectorisation (vertical, horizontal or a
combination) to an eNB by changing the coefficients of the antenna elements of
an active antenna system (AAS) to form more antenna beams, each beam may be
presented by one cell.
The number of cells split by AAS from an original cell is not fixed, i.e. it
is flexible based on the antenna capability.
The cells newly split from an original cell may or may not change the coverage
of the original cell. In order to simplify the description, the term SO-Cell
and SP-Cell are used to signify the original cell and the new cell split from
the original cell in Cell Splitting.
As Cell Splitting operation is changing coverage, interference and handover
settings for SP-cells and their neighbours, coordination with neighbour eNBs
is needed to keep coverage and inter-cell interference under control.
The SP-Cells need to be manageable as soon as possible after they are split
from the SO-Cell
The SP-Cell, once split from the SO-Cell, needs to be made known to management
system as soon as possible, at least before AAS operation is applied to the
SP-Cell.
The PCI of the SP-Cell may be or may be not the same as the PCI of the SO-
Cell, however PCI conflict or confusion with other cells needs to be avoided.
So the PCI or PCI range of each SP-Cell may be pre-allocated.
ECGI of each SP-Cell needs to be globally unique, it should be possible to be
configured (or pre-configured) by OAM.
#### 5.4.5.3 Use case 2: Cell Merging
Cell Merging is the contrary operation of Cell Splitting.
The number of cells can be merged by AAS into one cell is not fixed, i.e. it
is based on AAS algorithm.
The cell merged from the original cells (in respect to Cell Merging) may or
may not change the coverage of these original cells. In order to simplify the
description, the term MO-Cell and MT-Cell are used to signify the original
cell and the target cell merged from the original cells in Cell Merging.
As Cell Merging operation is changing coverage, interference and handover
settings created by the cell under consideration, coordination with neighbour
eNBs is needed to keep coverage, interference and handover settings under
control.
The entity triggering the Cell Merging should be the same as the entity
triggering the Cell Splitting for one active antenna system.
For Cell Merging, the MT-Cell is normally assigned with a new ECGI, but may
inherit the PCI from one of its MO-cells. So, in the view of other (e.g.
neighbour/adjacent) cells, the Cell Merging is the case that one MO-Cell
(whose id is continuously used by the MT-Cell) enlarges its coverage while the
other MO-Cells become unavailable.
#### 5.4.5.4 Use case 3: Cell Shaping
Cell Shaping adapts the cell edge to load demand while maintaining the main
coverage unchanged.
As Cell Shaping operation is changing coverage, interference and handover
settings created by the cell under consideration, coordination with neighbour
eNBs is needed to keep coverage, inter-cell interference and handover settings
under control.
If the eNB executes Call Shaping in a fully unconstrained manner, it may
decrease the reliability of handovers with its neighbour cells since in this
case an appropriate handover margin cannot be guaranteed. So, the eNB may be
pre-configured with alternative coverage configurations and the eNB may
autonomously select and switch between these configurations using AAS
operations including Cell Shaping. the number of allowed coverage
configurations is limited.
The eNB needs to consider each allowed coverage configuration, to:
1) make the right selection for the coverage change during Cell Shaping; and
2) set the proper handover margin with neighbour cells.
Therefore, each pre-configured coverage configuration should include a state
identifier and the range of the parameters (e.g. tilt, power) affecting the
coverage range.
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
#### 6.1.1.1 Management Part
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-1** IRPManager shall be able to configure objectives and
targets for the self-optimization functions.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-2** For open loop, IRPManager shall be able to configure
whether a confirmation is needed before the execution of optimization actions.
The necessity of a confirmation will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-3** For open loop, IRPManager shall be able to confirm the
execution of optimization actions in case IRPManager configured a confirmation
is needed.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-4** For open loop, IRPAgent shall provide information to the
IRPManager about the optimization actions. The necessity of this capability
will be decided case by case.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-5** IRPAgent shall provide information to the IRPManager about
the execution result of self-optimization actions.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-6** The IRPAgent shall provide information to the IRPManager
about the outcome of self-optimization.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-7** IRPManager shall be able to configure the values of KPIs
or performance counters which may be used to trigger the optimization
function.
**REQ-SO_MM-FUN-8** When the IRPAgent is aware of disruptive situations for
the SON functionality, it shall support optimization functions in coping with
them as much as possible without the need for an intervention from the
IRPManager. Disruptive situations are e.g. an outage of a cell, the insertion
of a new cell, deactivation of a cell etc.
### 6.1.2 Load Balancing
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-1** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the load
balancing function.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-2** The IRPManager shall be informed about the eNodeB load.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-3** The IRPManager shall be able to request that load
balancing be allowed from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-4** The IRPManager shall be able to request that load
balancing be prohibited from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_LB-FUN-5** The IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about success or
failure of IRPManager operations to allow load balancing, prohibit load
balancing.
### 6.1.3 Handover (HO) Parameter optimization
#### 6.1.3.1 HO failure categorization
##### 6.1.3.1.1 HO failures due to too late and too early HO triggering
HO failures can be categorized as follows:
\- HO failures due to too late HO triggering
\- HO failures due to too early HO triggering
\- Failures due to HO to a wrong cell
Consequently, the HO parameter optimisation should aim at detecting and
mitigating too early HOs, too late HOs and HOs to a wrong cell. The following
subsections provide the scenarios for too early HO, too late HO and HO to a
wrong cell triggering leading to HO failures.
##### 6.1.3.1.1.1 Too late HO triggering {#too-late-ho-triggering .H6}
Example scenario for too late HO triggering is shown in Figure 6-1. If the UE
mobility is more aggressive than what the HO parameter settings allow for, the
HO could be triggered when the signal strength of the serving cell is already
too low or may not be triggered at all if a radio link failure preempts it.
The connection may be re-established on a different cell from the serving
cell. This is a common scenario in areas where user mobility is very high,
such as along the highways, train lines etc.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 6-1 -- Too late HO triggering scenario
##### 6.1.3.1.1.2 Too early HO triggering {#too-early-ho-triggering .H6}
Example scenario for too early HO triggering is shown in Figure 6-2. HO can be
triggered when the UE enters unintended island of coverage of the target cell
inside the intended coverage area of the serving cell. When the UE exits the
island of coverage of the target cell, it cannot acquire the target cell any
more and the HO fails, potentially leading to a radio link failure. This is a
typical scenario for areas where fragmented cell coverage is inherent to the
radio propagation environment, such as dense urban areas.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 6-2 -- Too early HO triggering scenarios
##### 6.1.3.1.1.3 HO to a wrong cell {#ho-to-a-wrong-cell .H6}
Example scenario for HO to a wrong cell is shown in Figure 6-3. In this
scenario UE is moved from cell A to cell C, but because the HO parameter not
optimized and a cell A sends a wrong HO command performs a handover to cell B
and then a RLF happens. After that UE re-establishes connection with cell C.
{width="4.758333333333334in" height="3.25in"}
Figure 6-3 --HO to a wrong cell scenarios
#### 6.1.3.2 Reducing inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary
HOs
HO procedure is resource-consuming and therefore costly to the network
operator. Sometimes, the combination of user mobility patterns and cell
coverage boundary layout can generate frequent unnecessary HOs that consume NW
resources inefficiently. This scenario is illustrated in Figure 6-4a. HO
parameter optimisation function should aim at detecting such scenarios. These
scenarios sometimes can be remedied by HO parameter optimisation, as
illustrated in Figure 6-4b. Since the goal of reducing unnecessary HOs can
sometimes be opposed to the goal of reducing the number of HO failures,
operators should be able to set the tradeoff point.
{width="4.757638888888889in" height="1.6243055555555554in"}
Figure 6-4a -- Frequent HOs cause inefficient use of NW resources
{width="4.758333333333334in" height="1.625in"}
Figure 6-4b -- HO parameter adjustment prevents frequent Hos
Additionally, incorrect cell reselection parameters setting may result
unwanted handover right after RRC connection setup, HO parameter optimization
function should also aim at detecting misalignment between cell reselection
parameters and handover parameters setting and adjust the parameters to avoid
such scenarios.
#### 6.1.3.3 Requirements
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-1** HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at detecting
too early handover, too late handover and handover to a wrong cell.
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-2 HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at detecting
inefficient use of network resources due to unnecessary HOs.**
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-3 HO parameter optimisation function shall aim at meeting the
objectives and targets for the HO optimisation function**
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-4** The objectives for the HO parameter optimisation function
shall reflect the desired tradeoff between the reduction in the number of HO
related failures and the reduction of inefficient use of network resources due
to HOs.
**REQ-SO_HO-FUN-5** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the HO
parameter optimization function.
## 6.1.4 Interference control
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-1** The IRPManager shall be able to disable/enable the
Interference Control function.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-2** The IRPManager shall be able to request that ICIC be
allowed from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-3** The IRPManager shall be able to request that ICIC be
prohibited from source cell to target cell.
**REQ-SO_IC-FUN-4** An IRPAgent shall inform the IRPManager about success or
failure of IRPManager operations to allow ICIC, prohibit ICIC.
### 6.1.5 Coverage and capacity optimization
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-1 Performance measurements with geographical binning may be
used as inputs into the coverage and capacity optimization function.**
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-2 CCO function shall aim at providing optimal capacity and
coverage for the radio network while considering the trade-off between
capacity and coverage.**
**REQ-SO_CC-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to **enable or disable the CCO function.**
### 6.1.6 RACH optimization
**REQ-SO_RO-FUN-1 The IRPAgent shall support enabling and disabling the RACH
optimization function.**
### 6.1.7 SON Coordination
The following requirements apply when the SON coordination function is in NM
layer.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager whether a SON function is activated or not.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about which SON functions modified configuration parameter(s).
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-3** The IRPAgent should provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about the time duration how long the configuration parameter(s)
should not be modified.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-4** The IRPAgent should provide the capability to inform
the IRPManager about the SON targets which are the justification for the
configuration change.
The following requirements apply when the SON coordination function is below
Itf-N.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-5** The IRPAgent should provide a capability to allow the
IRPManager to configure the priority of SON functions in case of conflicts.
**REQ-SON_COORD-FUN-6** The IRPAgent shall provide the capability for the
IRPManager to be informed when the SON coordination function could not resolve
a conflict. This information should include the involved SON functions, the
involved configuration parameters and/or the involved SON targets.
### 6.1.8 NM centralized coverage and capacity optimization
**REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to initiate needed performance measurements that are not already
active and to receive performance measurements.
**REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to order one single trace session for several job types of radio
measurements (e.g. a combination of MDT/RLF/RCEF measurements) using one
single operation.
**REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-3** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to receive recorded MDT/RLF/RCEF measurements.
**REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-4** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to configure attributes that affect coverage and capacity**.**
**REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-5** The IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing the
IRPManager to receive indications that parameters have changed their
values**.**
### 6.1.9 AAS management
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-1** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to switch on/off the specific AAS operations (including Cell
Splitting, Cell Merging, Cell Shaping) respectively.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-2** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to set the quantity of allowed split cells to be split from the
original cell.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-3** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to pre-configure the ECGI for the potential split or merged cells.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-4** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to pre-allocate the PCI range(s) for the potential split or merged
cells.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-5** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to pre-configure the range of parameters affecting the coverage for
each potential split cell.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-6** The IRPAgent should be able to notify IRPManager about
the creation of split or merged cell as soon as possible after it is split or
merged from the original cell(s).
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-7** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to modify the ECGI and PCI of the split or merged cells.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-8** The IRPAgent should enable management operations with the
newly created split cell as soon as possible after it is split from the
original cell.
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-9** _For NM centralized AAS SON, the AAS operations (i.e.
Cell Splitting, Cell Merging, or Cell Shaping) at the eNB should be configured
by OAM in coordination with OAM configuration of the neighbour eNBs to keep
coverage, inter-cell interference and handover settings under control._
**REQ-SO_AAS-FUN-10** The IRPAgent should support a capability allowing
IRPManager to pre-configure the alternative coverage configurations (including
a state identifier, the range of parameters which affect coverage (e.g. tilt,
power)), then SON for Cell Shaping operation can autonomously select and
switch between these configurations.
## 6.2 Actor roles
_No new actor._
## 6.3 Telecommunications Resources
_No new telecommunications resources._
## 6.4 Use case
### 6.4.1 Use case Self-Optimization Monitoring and Management
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | Optimize the system in | | | | an automated manner. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its management | | | | system. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The network is properly | | | | installed and running. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The self-optimization | | | | objectives and targets | | | | have been set by | | | | operators | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | **Based on the monitored | | | | input parameters (KPIs, | | | | Alarms, etc.), targets | | | | for the objectives | | | | defined for the | | | | self-optimization | | | | functions are not met.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the bullet | | | | points in the list below | | | | does not imply any | | | | statements on the order | | | | of execution. | | | | | | | | [SO1] The input | | | | parameters **(KPIs, | | | | Alarms, etc.)** are | | | | monitored continuously. | | | | | | | | [SO2] When the | | | | monitored parameters do | | | | not meet the | | | | optimization targets, | | | | the optimization | | | | function is triggered. | | | | | | | | [SO3] Optimisation | | | | function proposes | | | | corrective actions. | | | | | | | | [SO4] Operator may | | | | confirm the | | | | execution/activation of | | | | the proposed actions if | | | | needed. | | | | | | | | [SO5] Corrective | | | | actions are executed. | | | | | | | | [SO6] Optimisation | | | | function monitors system | | | | status for a certain | | | | pre-defined monitoring | | | | time period. | | | | | | | | [SO7] The | | | | configuration prior to | | | | the corrective action is | | | | memorised if needed. | | | | | | | | [SO8] If the system | | | | status is satisfactory | | | | during the monitoring | | | | time period, then go to | | | | [SO1]. | | | | | | | | **[SO9]Operator may | | | | confirm if fallback is | | | | needed.** | | | | | | | | [SO10] Fallback is | | | | executed. | | | | | | | | [SO11] **The operator | | | | is informed about the | | | | progress and important | | | | events occurring during | | | | the self-optimization | | | | process.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step n (M\|O) | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful.. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | System is operating | | | | normally. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-5, | | | | REQ-SO_MM-FUN-6 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
###
### 6.4.2 Use case Load Balancing Allowed/Prohibited Management
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal (*) | The load balancing (LB) | | | | can be | | | | allowed/prohibited from | | | | a source cell to a | | | | target cell by the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles (*) | IRPManager as user | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN/EPC network | | | | including its OSS. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | There is operator's | | | | policy for LB | | | | allowing/prohibiting | | | | management. For example: | | | | | | | | LB from the higher | | | | priority cell to the | | | | lower priority cell is | | | | allowed; reverse is | | | | prohibited. | | | | | | | | LB between an eNB cell | | | | and another eNB cell | | | | which belongs to another | | | | unwanted PLMN is | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre conditions | The network is | | | | operational. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M) | The IRPManager makes a | | | | decision to | | | | allow/prohibit LB from a | | | | source cell to a target | | | | cell: | | | | | | | | According to operator's | | | | policy, or | | | | | | | | According to some | | | | information got in run | | | | time. For example: | | | | | | | | LB would always fail | | | | between some particular | | | | cells in case of some | | | | inappropriate parameters | | | | setting. In that | | | | situation, the LB | | | | function located at eNB | | | | may make a decision to | | | | prohibit LB between | | | | these particular cells | | | | and notify this | | | | infomation to the | | | | IRPManager. | | | | | | | | After the CM parameters | | | | adjusting, the LB | | | | between those cells may | | | | be allowed again based | | | | on the good values of | | | | relative PM counters. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (*) (M) | The IRPAgent is | | | | instructed by the | | | | IRPManager to | | | | allow/prohibit LB from | | | | the source cell to the | | | | target cell. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (*) (M) | The LB is allowed / | | | | prohibited from the | | | | source cell to the | | | | target cell by the | | | | corresponding eNB(s). | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (*) (M) | Reporting of the | | | | allowing/prohibiting LB | | | | operation result to the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when (*) | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The LB is | | | | allowed/prohibited from | | | | a source cell to a | | | | target cell successfully | | | | or unsuccessfully. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability (*) | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-SO_LB-FUN-5 | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
### _6.4.3 Use case NM centralized Coverage and Capacity Optimization_
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Optimize the Coverage and | | | | Capacity in the network | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user and IRPAgent | | | | as client | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | The E-UTRAN network including | | | | its NM and DM/EM. | | | | | | | | The CCO function that is | | | | located in the NM. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | There is no EM centralised CCO | | | | function in operation. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | The network is operational. The | | | | CCO function requests the | | | | IRPAgent to subscribe the | | | | needed performance measurements | | | | via the IRPManager that are not | | | | already subscribed. The | | | | IRPAgent initiates the | | | | requested performance | | | | measurements that are not | | | | already active. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | The operator turns on the CCO | | | | function. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The CCO function waits for | | | | performance measurements. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The IRPAgent delivers the | | | | performance measurements to the | | | | CCO function via the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The CCO function evaluates if | | | | there are any potential | | | | improvements to be made. If no | | | | more detailed information is | | | | needed to determine an | | | | improvement action, go to step | | | | 9. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (M) | The CCO function initiates | | | | detailed improvement analysis, | | | | e.g. MDT measurements, in the | | | | area for which a potential | | | | improvement has been | | | | identified, via the IRPManager | | | | to the IRPAgent. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 5 (M) | The IRPAgent initiates the | | | | requested session and transfers | | | | the result to the TCE specified | | | | by the CCO function. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 6 (M) | The network information is | | | | transferred to the CCO function | | | | that evaluates whether an | | | | improvement action can be | | | | applied. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 7 (M) | The CCO function initiates the | | | | IRPManager to instruct the | | | | IRPAgent to apply improvement | | | | actions (re-configure some | | | | attributes). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 8 (M) | The IRPAgent applies the | | | | improvement actions and informs | | | | the CCO function via the | | | | IRPManager. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 9 (M) | The CCO function goes to step | | | | 1. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | Ends when the operator turns | | | | off the CCO function. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | If no improvement action can be | | | | applied and the coverage and | | | | capacity situation is very bad | | | | (e.g. no coverage on any RAT is | | | | detected in an area), the | | | | operator is informed and the | | | | CCO function is turned off for | | | | that area. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post Conditions | The network is operational. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-4 and | | | | REQ-SO_CC_NM-FUN-5. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
# 7 Functions and Architecture
## 7.1 Self-Optimization Logical Architecture
The lines between the functional blocks do not indicate specific 3GPP
interfaces.
For the abbreviations used, please see the headlines of clause 4.2.
Figure 7.1-1 Self-Optimization logical architecture
## 7.2 Self-Optimization Reference Model
The SO_MMF has a part located in the EM and a part located at the NM.
For the abbreviations used, please refer to clause 4.2.
Figure 7.2-1 Self-Optimization reference model
###### ## Annex A (informative): Steps for SON self-optimization Technical
Specifications
The TSs for SON self-optimization shall follow the steps below.
**1\. Goal**
\
**2\. Problem Scenarios**
The problem scenarios need to be optimized under the goal. This part may
contain multiple problem scenarios
\
\
**3\. Parameters to be Optimized**
The list of parameters needs to be optimized to resolve the problems under the
goal. The parameters listed here are the overall parameters need to be
optimized; it does not imply that all of the parameters are required to be
open over Itf-N.
\
**4\. Architecture and Responsibilities**
The suitable architecture to optimize the parameters above, it can be
centralized, distributed or hybrid SON architectures.
And based on the architecture, the clear split of the responsibilities among
NM, EM and NE should be stated here. This will result in the work split among
3GPP WGs.
**5\. Performance Measurements and NRMs**
**Performance measurements:**
List of the performance measurements which are required via Itf-N to recognize
the problem scenarios, and to monitor the result of self-optimization, based
on the selected architecture and responsibilities.
This part only includes the descriptions for the performance measurements, and
the detailed definitions will be defined in TS 32.425/32.426.
\
\
**NRMs:**
The parameters need to be modeled in NRM, to support the optimizations
required over Itf-N according to the selected architecture and split
responsibilities.
\
###### ## Annex B (informative): General descriptions related to NM
centralized CCO high level use cases
## B.1 General
Coverage and capacity are two closely related characteristics of a cellular
network, which largely determine the network capabilities in terms of
providing a certain grade of service for a given number of customers in a
given geographical area and on a given set of radio spectrum. In order to
utilize cell resources in the most efficient way and to serve as many
customers as possible with the required level of service, there is a need to
configure cell resources according to the actual radio conditions, propagation
environment and traffic needs.
Such an optimization process shall be automated with minimal manual
intervention and has to be based upon actual network conditions, i.e. measured
data obtained from UEs and from the network.\ Looking for coverage holes or
finding capacity improvement possibilities manually is particularly time
consuming, costly and requires expert knowledge. Therefore, an automated CCO
function can significantly contribute to OPEX reductions.
The use cases for NM centralized CCO can only work during long optimisation
cycles (5 minutes or longer). This means that optimisation in or near real
time is excluded. Typically, the optimization cycle for NM centralized CCO is
24 hours.
NM centralized CCO is divided into 3 stages:
1) Monitoring
2) Detailed improvement analysis
3) Improvement action
Figure B.1-1: NM Centralized CCO function stages
**Monitoring** is constantly active and monitors the whole network all the
time to find potential improvements. This is done by using performance
monitoring. For the monitoring step to detect improvement possibilities there
is no need to continuously report fine granular detailed information, since at
this stage it is wanted to detect the existence of the improvement opportunity
and not necessarily the exact location and reason of the improvement
opportunity. This allows aggregations in PM measurements (e.g. in space and
time), which makes the continuous monitoring scalable for the whole network
without losing the detection capability.
**Detailed improvement analysis** may be activated for the area where
monitoring has detected an improvement opportunity in order to do a more fine
grained assessment of the improvement possibility and its localisation. This
is done by using a fine grained detection function/tool, e.g. MDT with
periodic measurements. Detailed improvement analysis is optional and only
needed if the monitoring stage does not give sufficient information.
**Improvement action** will determine and apply specific improvement
action(s). The action may be to reconfigure some cell parameters, e.g. output
power. To reconfigure any attribute, the existing CM operations over Itf-N are
reused. When no automated corrective action can be applied, the CCO function
may provide information to the operator (for example, a new base station site
may be installed in the area where an improvement is needed).
## B.2 Monitoring of UE distribution
Figure B.2-1 shows an example of how the UE distribution can be monitored
periodically by two-dimensional bins measurements, which are created by T~ADV~
(Timing Advanced) and AOA (Angle Of Arrival) measurements reported by
connected mode UE (see clause 10.2 and 10.3 of TS 3GPP TS 36.133 [8]). In
figure B.2-1, \"D\" denotes the distance between the base station antenna and
the UE, \"C\" is the speed of light in air, and \"T~ADV~\" represents the
T~ADV~-index multiplied by T~s~ (the basic time unit).
{width="4.973611111111111in" height="3.94375in"}
Figure B.2-1 Two-dimensional bin measurements
An example of a definition of two-dimensional bin measurements that show the
UE distribution in a cell is shown below:
**Measurement description (example):**
This measurement provides two-dimensional bins to monitor the UE distribution
across geographical area (e.g. in a cell). The two-dimensional bins are formed
from Timing Advance (T~ADV~) and Angle of Arrival (AOA),
where T~ADV~ = 1) N~TA~ -- for UEs that are uplink timing al igned (TS 36.213
[4])\ 2) 11 bits Timing Advance value -- for UEs that are not uplink timing
aligned (TS 36.321 [10])
AOA (TS 36.133 [8]) = measured on any part of the uplink transmission, such as
user data frame or PRACH, or via Sounding Reference Signals.
The table below illustrates an example implementation with x and y ranges
[0..10] and [0..11] respectively. x and y are integers within the
implementation specific ranges.
Index _x_ – TADV (Unit Ts) (ref. TS 36.133 [4] sect 10.3) | Index _y_ – AOA (Unit Degree °) (ref. TS 36.133 [4] sect 10.2) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 |   
| 0°-30° | 30°-60° | 60°-90° | 90°-120° | 120°-150° | 150°-180° | 180°-210° | 210°-240° | 240°-270° | 270°-300° | 300°-330° | 330°-360° |   
0 | 0 ≤TADV< 48 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
1 | 48 ≤TADV< 96 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
2 | 96 ≤TADV< 144 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
3 | 144 ≤TADV< 192 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
4 | 192 ≤TADV< 288 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
5 | 288 ≤TADV< 384 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
6 | 384 ≤TADV< 576 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
7 | 576 ≤TADV< 768 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
8 | 768 ≤TADV< 960 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
9 | 960 ≤TADV< 2048 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
10 | 2048 ≤TADV |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#