# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.690: Inventory Management (IM); Requirements.
28.631: Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Requirements.
28.632: Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS).
> **28.633: Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
> Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
Inventory Management (IM), in general, provides the operator with the ability
to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. IM
actions have the objective to monitor the actual configuration on the Network
Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and they may be initiated by the
operator or by functions in the Operations Systems (OSs) or NEs. The final
goal of IM is the establishment of an accurate and timely model of the actual
inventory in the NEs or NRs.
The present document covers the Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS) definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the NRM-specific part related to the Inventory
Management NRM IRP IS in 3GPP TS 28.632 [1] of solution set definitions.
This Solution Set definitions specification is related to 3GPP TS 28.632 V
14.0.X [1].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 28.632: \" Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[4] **W3C** REC-xml11-20060816: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.1 (Second
Edition)\".
[5] Void
[6] **W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 1: Structures.**
[7] **W3C XML Schema Definition Language (XSD) 1.1 Part 2: Datatypes.**
[8] W3C REC-xml-names-20060816: \"Namespaces in XML 1.1 (Second Edition)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.623: "**Generic network resources Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definition".**
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**XML file:** See definition of [11].
**XML document:** See definition of [11].
**XML declaration:** See definition of [11].
**XML element:** See definition of [11].
**empty XML element:** See definition of [11].
**XML content (of an XML element):** See definition of [13].
**XML start-tag:** See definition of [11].
**XML end-tag:** See definition of [11].
**XML empty-element tag:** See definition of [11].
**XML attribute specification:** See definition of [11].
**DTD:** See definition of [11].
**XML schema:** See definition of [11].
**XML namespace:** See definition of [11].
**XML complex type:** See definition of [11].
**XML element type:** See definition of [11].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
DTD Document Type Definition
IM Inventory Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Information Service
NRM Network Resource Model
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XSD XML Schema Definition
# 4 Solution Set definitions
This specification defines the following 3GPP Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP Solution Set (SS) definitions:
\- 3GPP Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP XML
definitions (Annex A)
CORBA Solution Set is not present in the current version of this
specification.
###### ## Annex A (normative): XML definitions
# A.0 General
This annex provides the NRM-specific part related to the Inventory Management
NRM IRP IS in 3GPP TS 28.632 [1] of the XML file format definition for the
Bulk Configuration Management IRP IS in 3GPP TS 32.612 [2] as well as for use
with File Tranfer IRP [10].
The XML file formats are based on XML [4], XML Schema [6] [7] and XML
Namespace [8] standards.
# A.1 Architectural features
## A.1.0 Introduction
The overall architectural feature of Inventory Management NRM IRP IS is
specified in 3GPP TS 28.632 [1].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML Schema
definitions.
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [9].
# A.2 Mapping
The mapping is not present in the current version of this specification.
# A.3 Solution Set definitions
## A.3.1 XML definition structure
The overall description of the file format of inventory data XML files is
provided by 3GPP TS 32.616 [3].
A.3.2 defines the NRM-specific XML schema inventoryNrm.xsd for the Inventory
Management NRM IRP IS alternative 1 defined in 3GPP TS 28.632 [1].
A.3.3 defines the NRM-specific XML schema inventoryNrmAlt2.xsd for the
Inventory Management NRM IRP IS alternative 2 as defined in 3GPP TS 28.632
[1].
XML schema inventoryNrmAlt1.xsd and inventoryNrmAlt2.xsd explicitly declare
NRM-specific XML element types for the related NRM.
The definition of those NRM-specific XML element types complies with the
generic mapping rules defined in 3GPP TS 32.616 [3].
## A.3.2 XML schema \"inventoryNrm.xsd\"
The following XML schema inventoryNrm.xsd is the NRM-specific schema for the
Inventory Management NRM IRP IS alternative 1 defined in 3GPP TS 28.632 [1].
\\ \ \\ \ \\ \
\\ \
\\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \
\\ \\ \\
\\ \\ \\ \\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\\ \
## A.3.3 XML schema \"inventoryNrmAlt2.xsd\"
The following XML schema inventoryNrmAlt2.xsd is the NRM-specific schema for
the Inventory Management NRM IRP IS alternative 2 defined in 3GPP TS 28.632
[1].
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\ \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#