# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.661: Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements;
**28.662: Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS);**
28.663: Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM);
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic Radio Access Network (RAN) network
resource model (NRM) that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an
IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes, including
management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an Interface IRP such
as the \"Basic CM IRP\" is needed (3GPP TS 32.602 [5]). However, which
Interface IRP is applicable is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP) ; Information Service (IS)\".
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E_UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 28.661: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Radio Access
Network (RAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.658: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.655:\"Telecommunication management; GSM/EDGE Radio Access
Network (GERAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.106: \"Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network;
UTRA repeater radio transmission and reception\".
[19] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[20] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[21] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[24] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"NR and NG-RAN Network Resource Model (NRM) stage 2 and
stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS **28.652:** \"**UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)** \"**.**
**[26] 3GPP TS 37.466:** \"Iuant Interface: Application Part\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and the following apply. The
definitions defined in the present document take precedence over those, if
any, in TS 32.150 [4], TS 32.101 [2], TS 32.102 [3] and TR 21.905 [1], in that
order.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [15].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CM Configuration Management
DN Distinguished Name
IOC Information Object Class
RDN Relative Distinguished Name
SS Solution Set
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [15], IOC, ManagedFunction
ManagedFunction 3GPP TS 28.652 [12], IOC, UtranGenericCell UtranGenericCell
3GPP TS 28.658 [13], IOC, EUtranGenericCell EUtranGenericCell 3GPP TS 28.655
[14], IOC, GSMCell GSMCell 3GPP TS 28.541 [24], IOC, NRSectorCarrier
NRSectorCarrier 3GPP TS 28.541 [24], IOC, NRCellDU NRCellDU 3GPP TS 28.658
[13], IOC, ENBFunction ENBFunction 3GPP TS 28.652 [25], IOC, NodeBFunction
NodeBFunction 3GPP TS 28.655 [14], IOC, BssFunction BssFunction
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagrams
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This subclause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This subclause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent subclauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
{width="6.697222222222222in" height="3.1034722222222224in"}
Figure 4.2.1.1: UTRAN/E-UTRAN/NR/GERAN sharing (1/2)
{width="5.934027777777778in" height="1.2215277777777778in"}
Figure 4.2.1.2: UTRAN/E-UTRAN/NR/GERAN sharing (2/2)
{width="6.69375in" height="1.632638888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.1.3: CommonBsFunction NRM fragment
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="1.7125in"}
Figure 4.2.1.4: RepeaterFunction NRM fragment
{width="5.495138888888889in" height="1.94375in"}
Figure 4.2.1.5: RepeaterFunction related VsDataContainer Containment/Naming
and Association diagram
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This subclause depicts the inheritance relationships.
{width="6.695833333333334in" height="0.9236111111111112in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: Inheritance diagram (1/2)
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="0.8041666666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.21.2: Inheritance diagram (2/2)
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 SectorEquipmentFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of cells within a geographical area that has common
functions relating to AntennaFunction, TMAFunction and supporting equipment,
such as power amplifier.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > **A | * |** isRe | **isWr |** isInv | **isNoti | | ttribute | *Support | adable** | itable**| ariant** | fyable**| | > name** | Qua | | | | | | | lifier**| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | fqBand | CM | T | F | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | eUTRA | CM | T | F | F | T | | NFqBands | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n | CM | T | F | F | T | | RFqBands | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | uTRANFD | CM | T | F | F | T | | DFqBands | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | uTRANTD | CM | T | F | F | T | | DFqBands | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | confOut | O | T | T | F | F | | putPower | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | role** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | th | CM | T | F | F | T | | eTMAList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | theAnt | CM | T | F | F | T | | ennaList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | the | CM | T | F | F | T | | CellList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | theNRS | CM | T | F | F | T | | ectorCar | | | | | | | rierList | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | fqBand CM Support Qualifier | Condition: EUTRAN is supported, | | | and only one EUTRAN frequency | | | band is supported, and | | | eUTRANFqBands is not used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | eUTRANFqBands CM Support | Condition: EUTRAN is supported, | | Qualifier | and fqBand is not used. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | nRFqBands CM Support Qualifier | Condition: NR is supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | uTRANFDDFqBands CM Support | Condition: UTRAN FDD is | | Qualifier | supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | uTRANTDDFqBands CM Support | Condition: UTRAN TDD is | | Qualifier | supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theTMAList CM Support Qualifier | Condition: Association between | | | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | AntennaFunction is absent AND is | | | supporting the UTRAN/E-UTRAN | | | sharing/non-sharing case OR is | | | supporting the GERAN sharing | | | case. In such case, at least one | | | TMAFunction is present. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theAntennaList CM Support | Condition: Association between | | Qualifier | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | TMAFunction is absent AND is | | | supporting the UTRAN/E-UTRAN | | | sharing/non-sharing OR is | | | supporting GERAN sharing case. | | | In such case, at least one | | | AntennaFunction is present. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theCellList CM Support Qualifier | Condition: Supporting | | | UTRAN/E-UTRAN sharing (and | | | non-sharing) cases. In such | | | case, at least one | | | _Utran | | | GenericCell_ /_EUtranGenericCell_ | | | is present. | | | | | | Condition: Supporting the GERAN | | | sharing case. In such case, at | | | least one GSMCellPart is | | | present. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theNRSectorCarrierList CM | Condition: Supporting NR sharing | | Support Qualifier | and non-sharing cases. In such | | | cases, at least one | | | NRSectorCarrier is present. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.2 AntennaFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents an array of radiating elements that may be tilted to
adjust the RF coverage of a cell(s).
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**IsNotifyable** retTiltValue O T T F T bearing O T T F T retGroupName O T T F
T height O T T F T maxAzimuthValue O T T F T minAzimuthValue O T T F T
horizBeamwidth O T T F T vertBeamwidth O T T F T **Attribute related to role**  
theCellList CM T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.2.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theCellList CM Support Qualifier | Condition: Association between | | | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | ProxyCell is absent; and | | | association | | | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | NRSectorCarrier is absent.. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.2.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 TMAFunction
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents a Tower Mounted Amplifier or a number of TMA subunits
within one TMA, each separately addressable by a specific index at the
application layer.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** tmaSubunitNumber M T T F T tmaStateFlag M T O F T
tmaFunctionFlag M T T F T tmaMinGain M T F F T tmaMaxGain M T F F T
tmaResolution M T F F T tmaGainFigure M T O F T tmaNumberOfSubunits M T F F T
tmaBaseStationId CO T CO F T tmaSectorId CO T CO F T tmaAntennaBearing CO T CO
F T tmaInstalledMechanicalTilt CO T CO F T tmaSubunitType CO T CO F T
tmaSubunitRxFrequencyBand CO T CO F T tmaSubunitTxFrequencyBand CO T CO F T
tmaGainResolution CO T CO F T **Attribute related to role**  
theCellList CM T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute Constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | theCellList CM Support Qualifier | Condition: Association between | | | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | ProxyCellList is absent ; and | | | association between | | | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | NRSectorCarrier is absent. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
* * *
Name Definition The CO support qualifier of the attributes tmaBaseStationId
through tmaGainResolution Condition: The TMA subunit supports the read
operation in 3GPP TS 37.466 [26] The CO write qualifier of the attributes
tmaBaseStationId through tmaGainResolution Condition: The TMA subunit supports
the write operation in 3GPP TS 37.466 [26]
* * *
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.4 GSMCellPart
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
A GSM cell can consist of a number of carriers. These carriers can be
configured in a number of ways, for example, the carriers can have different
propagation properties which are sent with different antenna tilt, with
different RF power, different radio band and even possibly different antenna.
The various GSMCellPart instances capture different radio propagation
properties allowing different frequency planning schemes, e.g. some
GSMCellPart instances can use frequency groups planned for tighter frequency
reuse.
Hence, a GSM cell can, and in some cases must, be distributed on more than one
SectorEquipmentFunction.
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**IsNotifyable** aRFCN M T T F T tsc M T T F T aTA M T T F T **Attribute
related to role**  
theSectorEquipment M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.5 CommonBsFunction
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents common aspects of Base Station (BS) functionality shared
by several radio access technologies.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-001  
3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-CON-002
* * *
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** sharedTechnologies M T O F T **Attribute related to role**  
theProxyBsList M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.6 _CellReferences_
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC represents the three references to TMAFunction,
SectorEquipmentFunction and AntennaFunction. The references are used by
various classes of cells, e.g. _UtranGenericCell_.
This is an abstract class.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable** **Attribute related to role**  
relatedSectorEquipment CM T F F T relatedTMAList CM T F F T relatedAntennaList
CM T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | > Name | > Definition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | relatedSectorEquipment CM | Condition: Supporting the GERAN | | Support Qualifier | sharing case. In such case, | | | there shall be at least one | | | GSMCellPart present at one end | | | of this association. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | relatedAntennaList CM Support | Condition: Association between | | Qualifier | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | ProxyCell is absent. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | relatedTMAList CM Support | Condition: Association between | | Qualifier | SectorEquipmentFunction and | | | ProxyCell is absent. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.7 RepeaterFunction
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents the management aspect of a repeater. For the information
on repeater see 3GPP TS 25.106 [18].
This IOC is required as part of the capability to satisfy the Requirements
statement identified below.
* * *
Referenced TS Requirement label Comment 3GPP TS 28.661 [10] REQ-GRAN_NRM-
CON-003
* * *
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable priority M T T F T latitude M T F F F longitude M T F F F
ctrlConnMode M T T F T environmentInfo M T - F - powerSwitch M T T F T
ulAttenuation M T T F T dlAttenuation M T T F T firmwareVer M T F F F
repeaterType M T F F F Attribute related to role  
externalUTRANCell M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.8 ProxyCell \>
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents GSMCellPart, UTranGenericCell and EUtranGenericCell.
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
See respective IOCs
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
See respective IOCs.
### 4.3.9 ProxyBsFunction \>
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC represents ENBFunction, NodeBFunction and BssFunction.
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
See respective IOCs.
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
See respective IOCs.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute Name** | **Documentation and |** Properties**| | | Allowed Values** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aRFCN | This attribute | type: String | | | (Absolute Radio | | | | Frequency Channel | multiplicity: 1 | | | Number) defines a | | | | pair of Radio | isOrdered: N/A | | | Frequency (RF) | | | | channel frequencies | isUnique: N/A | | | for uplink and | | | | downlink use. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | See 3GPP TS 45.005 | isNullable: True | | | [19] clause 2 for | | | | the ARFCN for GSM. | | | | ARFCN are based on a | | | | 200 kHz channel | | | | raster. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | 3GPP TS 45.005 | | | | [19] clause 2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | aTA | This attribute | type: Integer | | | (allowed Timing | | | | Advance) defines the | multiplicity: 1 | | | signal sent by the | | | | BTS to the MS which | isOrdered: N/A | | | the MS uses to | | | | advance its timings | isUnique: N/A | | | of transmissions to | | | | the BTS so as to | defaultValue: None | | | compensate for | | | | propagation delay. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | 3GPP TS 45.010 | | | | [20] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | bearing | The bearing in | type: Integer | | | degrees that the | | | | antenna is pointing | multiplicity: 1 | | | in. Antenna | | | | bearing\" in | isOrdered: N/A | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.463 | | | | [8]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | \"Antenna bearing\" | | | | in 3GPP TS 25.463 | isNullable: True | | | [8]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | confOutputPower | It defines the | type: Integer | | | allowed total power | | | | to use for all cells | multiplicity: 1 | | | together in this | | | | sector. It may be | isOrdered: N/A | | | set by the operator | | | | and/or limited by HW | isUnique: N/A | | | limitation or | | | | licensed power, | defaultValue: None | | | e.g.: 20, 40, 60, | | | | 80,120 watts | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ctrlConnMode | Remote communication | type: String | | | mode used by a | | | | repeater to send and | multiplicity: 1 | | | receive control | | | | message, such as GSM | isOrdered: N/A | | | SMS, WCDMA SMS, | | | | Circle Switch | isUnique: N/A | | | Data-CSD, Package | | | | Switch Dat-IP, | defaultValue: None | | | Serial port. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dlAttenuation | Downlink signal | type: Integer | | | attenuation of the | | | | device to change | multiplicity: 1 | | | downlink gain. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | environmentInfo | The repeater device | type: String | | | is located either in | | | | the building or out | multiplicity: 1 | | | of the building. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eUTRANFqBands | This is the list of | type: String | | | LTE frequency bands | | | | supported by the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | hardware associated | | | | with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The earfcnDl and | defaultValue: None | | | earfcnUl or earfcn | | | | of LTE cells | isNullable: True | | | associated with the | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | eUTRANFqBands | | | | values. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | list of frequency | | | | bands expressed as | | | | strings. | | | | | | | | Valid frequency band | | | | values are specified | | | | in sub-clause 5.7.3 | | | | in 36.104 [7]. | | | | | | | | For HW not | | | | supporting LTE | | | | frequency bands, the | | | | list shall be empty. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | firmwareVer | Version of the | type: String | | | device firmware. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fqBand | This is the LTE | type: Integer | | | frequency band | | | | supported by the | multiplicity: 1 | | | hardware associated | | | | with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isUnique: N/A | | | The earfcnDl and | | | | earfcnUl of cells | defaultValue: None | | | associated with the | | | | Sec | isNullable: True | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | this fqBand value. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | clause 5 Table 5.2-1 | | | | "E-UTRA frequency | | | | band" of 3GPP TS | | | | 36.104 [7]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nRFqBands | This is the list of | type: String | | | NR frequency bands | | | | supported by the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | hardware associated | | | | with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The arfcnDl and | defaultValue: None | | | arfcnUl of the | | | | NRSectorCarrier must | isNullable: False | | | be assigned with | | | | value within one of | | | | the specified | | | | nRFqBands values -- | | | | if the attributes on | | | | NRSectorCarriers are | | | | set. | | | | | | | | The arfcnDl and | | | | arfcnUl of the | | | | NRCellDU associated | | | | with the | | | | NRSectorCarrier must | | | | be assigned with | | | | value within one of | | | | the specified | | | | nRFqBands values -- | | | | if there is a | | | | NRCellDU associated | | | | with the | | | | NRSectorCarrier. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | A list of frequency | | | | bands expressed as | | | | strings. | | | | | | | | Valid frequency band | | | | values are specified | | | | in sub-clause 5.4.2 | | | | in 3GPP TS 38.104 | | | | [23]. | | | | | | | | For HW not | | | | supporting NR | | | | frequency bands, the | | | | list shall be empty. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | height | The height of an | type: Integer | | | antenna above sea | | | | level. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | Note: The value of | isOrdered: N/A | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | isUnique: N/A | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | defaultValue: None | | | behavior is not | | | | affected by the | isNullable: True | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | | | | | | | | An integral value | | | | representing a | | | | number of meters in | | | | 0.1 meter | | | | increments. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | horizBeamwidth | The 3 dB power | type: Integer | | | beamwidth of the | | | | antenna pattern in | multiplicity: 1 | | | the horizontal | | | | plane. A value of | isOrdered: N/A | | | 360 indicates an | | | | omni-directional | isUnique: N/A | | | antenna. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | Note: The value of | | | | this attribute has | isNullable: True | | | no operational | | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS37.466 | | | | [26]. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 360. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | latitude | The latitude of the | type: Integer | | | antenna location | | | | based on World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to the | defaultValue: None | | | northern hemisphere. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | allowedValues: | | | | -90.0000 to +90.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | longitude | The longitude of the | type: Integer | | | antenna location | | | | based on World | multiplicity: 1 | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | isOrdered: N/A | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | isUnique: N/A | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to | defaultValue: None | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | degrees longitude. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -180.0000 to | | | | +180.0000 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxAzimuthValue | The maximum amount | type: Integer | | | of change of azimuth | | | | the RET system can | multiplicity: 1 | | | support. This is the | | | | change in degrees | isOrdered: N/A | | | clockwise from | | | | bearing. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Note: The value of | defaultValue: None | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | isNullable: True | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 360 with a | | | | resolution of 0.1 | | | | degrees. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | minAzimuthValue | The minimum amount | type: Integer | | | of change of azimuth | | | | the RET system can | multiplicity: 1 | | | support. This is the | | | | change in degrees | isOrdered: N/A | | | counter-clockwise | | | | from bearing. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | Note: The value of | defaultValue: None | | | this attribute has | | | | no operational | isNullable: True | | | impact on the | | | | network, e.g. the NE | | | | behaviour is not | | | | affected by the | | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. Note | | | | as well that this | | | | attribute is not | | | | supported over the | | | | Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 25.466 | | | | [9]. | | | | | | | | A single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 360 with a | | | | resolution of 0.1 | | | | degrees. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | priority | The priority of a | type: Integer | | | repeater decided by | | | | an operator. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | powerSwitch | Power switch of | type: Boolean | | | device which has two | | | | status: ON/OFF. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: ON, | isOrdered: N/A | | | OFF | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedAntennaList | This attribute | type: DN | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | multiplicity: 1..* | | | AntennaFunction**.** | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: T | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | re | This attribute | type: DN | | latedSectorEquipment | contains the DN of | | | | one | multiplicity: 1 | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | relatedTMAList | This attribute | type: DN | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | multiplicity: 1..* | | | TmaFunction. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: T | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | repeaterType | The repeater type | type: String | | | defined by operator, | | | | such as wide band, | multiplicity: 1 | | | frequency selective, | | | | indoor and fiber | isOrdered: N/A | | | optic. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | retGroupName | The group name is a | type: String | | | textual, | | | | alpha-numeric string | multiplicity: 1 | | | to define a logical | | | | grouping of antennas | isOrdered: N/A | | | which may be in | | | | different cells. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | This attribute | defaultValue: None | | | permits the | | | | definition of a | isNullable: True | | | logical grouping of | | | | the antennas. This | | | | may be defined | | | | either at | | | | installation time, | | | | or by management | | | | activity to | | | | provisioning the | | | | group name via the | | | | Itf-N. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | (String size is | | | | bounded to 80 | | | | characters.) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | retTiltValue | The electrical tilt | type: Integer | | | setting of the | | | | antenna, \"Tilt | multiplicity: 1 | | | value\" in | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 37.466 | isOrdered: N/A | | | [26]. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | \"Tilt value\" in | defaultValue: None | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sharedTechnologies | This attribute | type: Integer | | | defines the radio | | | | access technologies | multiplicity: 1 | | | sharing the common | | | | functionalities of a | isOrdered: N/A | | | Base Station (BS). | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | allowedValues: GSM, | | | | UMTS, LTE, or any | defaultValue: None | | | combination thereof | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaAntennaBearing | A data field defined | type: Integer | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26]. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | See definition in | isOrdered: N/A | | | 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaBaseStationId | A data field defined | type: String | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaFunctionFlag | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainFigure | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaGainResolution | A data field defined | type: Integer | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaIns | A data field defined | type: Integer | | talledMechanicalTilt | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMaxGain | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaMinGain | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaNumberOfSubunits | Defined in 3GPP TS | Defined in 3GPP TS | | | 37.466 [26] | 37.466 [26] | | | | | | | allowedValues: -- | type: -- | | | | | | | | multiplicity: -- | | | | | | | | isOrdered: -- | | | | | | | | isUnique: -- | | | | | | | | defaultValue: -- | | | | | | | | isNullable: -- | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaResolution | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSectorId | A data field defined | type: String | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaStateFlag | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSubunitNumber | Defined in 3GPP TS | type: Integer | | | 37.466 [26] | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSu | A data field defined | type: Integer | | bunitRxFrequencyBand | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 2 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: True | | | 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSubunitType | A data field defined | type: Integer | | | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tmaSu | A data field defined | type: Integer | | bunitTxFrequencyBand | in Table B.3 of 3GPP | | | | TS 37.466 [26] | multiplicity: 2 | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isOrdered: True | | | 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tsc | This attribute has | type: Integer | | | the same definition | | | | as the one used in | multiplicity: 1 | | | GsmCell IOC. The | | | | presence of | isOrdered: N/A | | | GSMCellPart means | | | | the tsc attribute in | isUnique: N/A | | | GsmCell IOC instance | | | | is irrelevant (not | defaultValue: None | | | applicable). | | | | | isNullable: True | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ulAttenuation | Uplink signal | type: Integer | | | attenuation of the | | | | device to change | multiplicity: 1 | | | uplink gain. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uTRANFDDFqBands | This is the list of | type: String | | | UTRAN FDD frequency | | | | bands supported by | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the hardware | | | | associated with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The arfcnDl and | defaultValue: None | | | arfcnUl of UTRAN FDD | | | | cells associated | isNullable: True | | | with the | | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | uTRANFDDFqBands | | | | values. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | list of frequency | | | | bands expressed as | | | | strings. | | | | | | | | Valid frequency band | | | | values are specified | | | | in sub-clause 5.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 25.104 | | | | [21]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | uTRANTDDFqBands | This is the list of | type: String | | | UTRAN TDD frequency | | | | bands supported by | multiplicity: 1..* | | | the hardware | | | | associated with the | isOrdered: N/A | | | Sect | | | | orEquipmentFunction. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | The earfcn of UTRAN | defaultValue: None | | | TDD cells associated | | | | with the | isNullable: True | | | Sec | | | | torEquipmentFunction | | | | must be assigned | | | | with value within | | | | one of the specified | | | | uTRANTDDFqBands | | | | values. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | list of frequency | | | | bands expressed as | | | | strings. | | | | | | | | Valid frequency band | | | | values are specified | | | | in sub-clause 5.2 of | | | | 3GPP TS 25.105 | | | | [22]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vertBeamwidth | The 3 dB power | type: Integer | | | beamwidth of the | | | | antenna pattern in | multiplicity: 1 | | | the vertical plane. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | The value of this | | | | attribute has no | isUnique: N/A | | | operational impact | | | | on the network, e.g. | defaultValue: None | | | the NE behaviour is | | | | not affected by the | isNullable: True | | | value setting of | | | | this attribute. | | | | | | | | This attribute is | | | | not supported over | | | | the Iuant interface | | | | according to | | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 37.466 | | | | [26]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: A | | | | single integral | | | | value corresponding | | | | to an angle in | | | | degrees between 0 | | | | and 180. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Attribute related | | | | to role** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | externalUTRANCell | This role (when | type: DN | | | present) represents | | | | repeaterFunction | multiplicity: 1 | | | capability to | | | | identify one | isOrdered: N/A | | | ExternalUtranCell. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | When present, it | | | | shall contain one | defaultValue: None | | | ExternalUtranCell | | | | DN. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theAntennaList | This attribute | type: DN | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | multiplicity: 1..* | | | AntennaFunction. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theCellList | This attribute | type: DN | | | contains the DNs of | | | | EUtranGenericCell or | multiplicity: 1..* | | | UtranGenericCell if | | | | associations between | isOrdered: False | | | them exist. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | This attribute | | | | contains the DNs of | defaultValue: None | | | GSMCellPart if | | | | association between | isNullable: True | | | them exist. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theProxyBsList | A CommonBsFunction | type: DN | | | instance serves a | | | | number of | multiplicity: 1..* | | | ProxyBsFunction | | | | instances. This | isOrdered: False | | | CommonBsFunction | | | | role-attribute | isUnique: True | | | contains a list of | | | | DNs of ENBFunction | defaultValue: None | | | (3GPP TS 28.658 | | | | [13]), | isNullable: True | | | NodeBFunction (3GPP | | | | TS 28.652 [12]) | | | | and BssFunction | | | | (3GPP TS 28.655 | | | | [14]) that it | | | | serves. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | theTMAList | This attribute | type: DN | | | contains the DNs of | | | | one or more | multiplicity: 1..* | | | TMAFunction. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None
## 4.5 Common Notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11], that IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302 [16], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[11])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [11])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in 3GPP TS 32.662
[17], that IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in 3GPP TS 32.302[16], would capture the
DN of an instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O
* * *
#