# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
**28.674: Telecommunication management; Home enhanced Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
28.675: Telecommunication management; Home enhanced Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
28.676: Telecommunication management; Home enhanced Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The document describes the requirements for Home eNodeB Subsystem (HeNS),
which include Home eNodeB (HeNB) and Home eNodeB gateway (HeNB GW). The HeNS
NRM IRP requirements are targeted on both HeNB and HeNB GW NRM.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.401: "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Integration Reference Point (IRP):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**Information Service (IS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**Solution Set (SS):** See 3GPP TS 32.150 [5].
**IRP Solution Set:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
HeNB Home eNodeB
GW Gateway
HeNB Home enhanced Node B
HeNS Home enhanced Node B Subsystem
IRP Integration Reference Point
IOC Information Object Class
NRM Network Resource Model
# 4 Concepts and background
HeNB Subsystem is defined in TS 23.401[6]. According to the definition, a HeNB
Subsystem consists of a HeNB and optionally a HeNB GW. The HeNB Subsystem is
connected by means of the standard S1 interface to the EPC (Evolved Packet
Core), more specifically to the MME (Mobility Management Entity) by means of
the S1-MME interface and to the Serving Gateway (S-GW) by means of the S1-U
interface.
Detailed functions of HeNB and HeNB GW are described in TS 36.300 [7]. To be
more specific, HeNB is a Customer Premise Equipment that offers the LTE-Uu
Interface to the UE. And it could discovery a suitable Serving HeNB GW over S1
interface. A HeNB GW can relay UE-associated S1 application part messages
between the MME serving the UE and the HeNB serving the UE. It could terminate
non-UE associated S1 application part procedures towards the HeNB and towards
the MME and optionally terminate S1-U interface with the HeNB and with the
S-GW.
Based on the above characteristics, this specification defines respective HeNS
NRM IRP requirements.
# 5 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
a) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2].
b) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
c) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [4].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
d) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
e) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [8] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [9]
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
**REQ-HeNS_GW-CON-001** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall
contain HeNB GW specific IOCs and related definitions..
**REQ-HeNS_GW-CON-002** The Network Resource Model defined by this IRP shall
provide support for enabling consistency between HeNB GW, HeNB and related EPC
nodes.
#