# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
28.674: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Requirements.
**28.675.: Telecommunication management; Home eNode B Subsystem (HeNS) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS).**
28.676: Telecommunication management; Home enhanced Node B Subsystem (HeNS)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions.
.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Home enhanced Node B (HeNB) Subsystem
(HeNS) Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP that can be communicated between an
IRPAgent and an IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes,
including management of converged networks.
This document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information object
class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
In order to access the information defined by this NRM, an IRP IS is needed,
such as the Basic CM IRP IS (3GPP TS 32.602 [6]) or the Bulk CM IRP IS (3GPP
TS 32.612 [7]). However, which IS that is applicable is outside the scope of
the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication Telecommunication management;; Generic
Network Resource Model (NRMs) Integration Reference Point (IRP):Information
Service" (IS)\"..
[6] 3GPP TS 32.602: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic Configuration Management Integration Reference Point (IRP):
Information Service (IS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.702: \"Telecommunication management; Core Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA),
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; stage 2\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.593: "Home eNode B (HeNB) Operations, Administration,
Maintenance and Provisioning (OAM&P); Procedure flows for Type 1 Interface
HeNB to HeNB Management System (HeMS)"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects"
[12] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.708: "Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.672: \"Telecommunication management; Home Node B Subsystem
(HNS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS **28.652: "UTRAN Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)".**
[16] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[18] TR-196, "_Femto Access Point Device Data Model"_ , Broadband Forum, 2009,
http://broadband-forum.org/technical/download/TR-196.pdf.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions and
abbreviations apply. For definitions and abbreviations not found here, please
refer to to 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [5].
**Association:** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
**Management Information Model (MIM):** also referred to as NRM - see the
definition below.
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See definition in TS 28.622 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
GW Gateway
HeNB Home enhanced Node B
HeNS Home enhanced Node B Subsystem
IOCs Information Object Classes
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction 3GPP
TS 28.622 [5], IOC, MeContext MeContext 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC, SubNetwork
SubNetwork 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC, Top Top 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC,
VsDataContainer VsDataContainer 3GPP TS 28.622 [5], IOC, ManagementNode
ManagementNode **3GPP TS 28.708 [13], IOC,** EP_RP_EPS EP_RP_EPS **3GPP TS
28.672 [14], IOC,** LocalGWFunction LocalGWFunction
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of IOCs that encapsulate information relevant for
this service. This clause provides the overview of all information object
classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more detailed specification of
various aspects of these information object classes.
{width="6.360416666666667in" height="2.9256944444444444in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
Figure 4.2.1-1 HeNS NRM Containment/Naming
{width="6.449305555555555in" height="1.5368055555555555in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2 HeNS NRM Containment/Naming
{width="6.653472222222222in" height="1.707638888888889in"}
NOTE 1: The listed cardinality numbers, in particular the use of cardinality
number zero, do not represent transient states. The transient state is
considered an inherent property of all IOC instances and therefore there is no
need to represent them by individual IOC cardinality numbers.
NOTE 2: Each instance of the VsDataContainer shall only be contained under one
IOC. The VsDataContainer can be contained under IOCs defined in other NRMs.
Figure 4.2.1-3: VsDataContainer Containment/Naming
The VsDataContainer is only used for the Bulk CM IRP.
Each IOC is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to 3GPP TS
32.300 [11] that expresses its containment
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between IOCs.
{width="6.875in" height="1.8020833333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: HeNS NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 HeNBGWFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents HeNB GW functionality. For more information about the HeNB
GW, see 3GPP TS 36.300[9]
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable henbGwId M M - - M iPConfigInfo M M - - M maxNbrHeNBRegistered M
M - - M maxPacketCapability M M - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this class,
without exceptions or additions._
### 4.3.2 HeMSFunction
#### 4.3.2.1 Definition
This IOC represents HeMS functionality. For more information about HeMS, see
3GPP TS 32.593[10].
#### 4.3.2.2 Attributes
None.
#### 4.3.2.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications defined.
### 4.3.3 HeNBProfile
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
The HeNBProfile is a representation of information that a) identifies a
specific set of HeNB devices and b) the related configuration parameters (and
their values) that are required to be configured in those identified HeNB
devices during HeNB registration procedure [10].
It contains userLabel, an attribute inherited from ManagedFunction. This is a
user friendly label assigned by operator. Examples can be "VIP configuration",
"Gold Tier configuration", "device vendor XYZ software version 3.4", "camel",
etc.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable configuration M M -- - M criterion O M -- - M
* * *
#### 4.3.3.3 Notifications
There are no Notifications defined.
### 4.3.4 HeNB
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This class represents HeNB functionality. For more information about the HeNB,
see 3GPP TS 36.300 [9].
The Home eNodeB, represented by the \> HeNB, has registered
itself with one node represented by HeMSFunction.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable id M - - - M
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Notifications
_The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are not valid for this class.
The set of notifications defined in the following table is valid._
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[12])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])
* * *
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute Properties
This table defines the attributes that are present in several Information
Object Classes (IOCs) of the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | > Documentation and | Properties | | | > Allowed Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | id | An attribute whose | type: String | | | 'name+value' can be | | | | used as an RDN when | multiplicity:1 | | | naming an instance | | | | of the IOC. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | This RDN uniquely | isUnique: True | | | identifies the | | | | object instance | defaultValue:None | | | within the scope of | | | | its containing | isNullable: False | | | (parent) object | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | format of allowed | | | | values to be | | | | conformant with TS | | | | 32.300[11] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | henbGwId | Unique HeNB GW ID. | type: see [18] | | | Ref. 3GPP TS 36.300 | | | | [9] specifies that | multiplicity: see | | | HeNB GW acts as a | [18] | | | concentrated node to | | | | the existing EPC | isOrdered: see | | | network using | [18] | | | existing S1 | | | | interface. | isUnique: see [18] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | defaultValue: see | | | [18] | [18] isNullable: | | | | see [18] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | iPConfigInfo | The IP address, | type: see [18] | | | subnetwork mask, | | | | default gateway for | multiplicity: see | | | HeNB GW. | [18] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isOrdered: see | | | [18] | [18] | | | | | | | | isUnique: see [18] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [18] isNullable: | | | | see [18] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxNbrHeNBRegistered | Maximum number of | type: see [18] | | | registered HeNB | | | | means maximum number | multiplicity: see | | | of HeNB allowed to | [18] | | | be registered. | | | | | isOrdered: see | | | allowedValues: see | [18] | | | [18] | | | | | isUnique: see [18] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [18] isNullable: | | | | see [18] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | maxPacketCapability | The HeNB GW's | type: see [18] | | | ability of | | | | forwarding packets, | multiplicity: see | | | such as maximum | [18] | | | number of forwarded | | | | packets per second. | isOrdered: see | | | | [18] | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [18] | isUnique: see [18] | | | | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [18] isNullable: | | | | see [18] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndNeIpAddr | The IP address(s) of | type: see [18] | | | the far end network | | | | entity to which the | multiplicity: see | | | reference point is | [18] | | | related.This is an | | | | IPv4 or an IPv6 | isOrdered: see | | | address. | [18] | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | isUnique: see [18] | | | [18] | | | | | defaultValue: see | | | | [18] isNullable: | | | | see [18] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | configuration | It is a location of | type: see [18] | | | a data set. The data | | | | set is a set of HeNB | multiplicity: see | | | attributes (with | [18] | | | values) needed to be | | | | loaded into the | isOrdered: see | | | HeNB. | [18] | | | | | | | The data set does | isUnique: see [18] | | | not contain all | | | | configuration data | defaultValue: see | | | needed for a device | [18] isNullable: | | | to operate. Some | see [18] | | | configuration | | | | parameters are | | | | autonomously and | | | | dynamically | | | | calculated by the | | | | serving HeMS. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [18] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | criterion | It is a criterion | type: see [18] | | | that determines if a | | | | HeNB should or | multiplicity: see | | | should not be loaded | [18] | | | with a particular | | | | configuration. | isOrdered: see | | | | [18] | | | The syntax and | | | | semantics of | isUnique: see [18] | | | criterion is | | | | vendor-specific. | defaultValue: see | | | | [18] isNullable: | | | Example 1: | see [18] | | | | | | | > The syntax and | | | | > semantics can be | | | | > "If the HeNB ID | | | | > range is between | | | | > ABC and DEF then | | | | > APPLY the related | | | | > configuration". | | | | | | | | Example 2: | | | | | | | | > The syntax is a | | | | > list of strings | | | | > where each string | | | | > is a "attribute == | | | | > value" pair. An | | | | > attribute | | | | > represents a | | | | > TR‑196 parameter. | | | | > Its value is the | | | | > corresponding | | | | > attribute value. | | | | > | | | | > The semantics is | | | | > "if all pairs | | | | > found in criterion | | | | > are also found in | | | | > the home devices, | | | | > then the | | | | > determination is | | | | > positive in that | | | | > the home device | | | | > should be loaded | | | | > with information | | | | > of the data set | | | | > identified by | | | | > configuration; | | | | > else not". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | [18] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None.
## 4.5 Common Notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This subclause presents a list of notifications, defined in [16], that
IRPManager can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [17], would capture the DN of an
instance of an IOC defined in this IRP specification.
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[12])  
notifyAttributeValueChange O  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])  
notifyObjectCreation O  
notifyObjectDeletion O  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [12])
* * *
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
None.
#