# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 28.680: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
management; Concepts and requirements
TS 28.681: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
TS 28.682: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
**TS 28.683: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Management Network Resource Model (NRM)
IRP, through which an IRPAgent can communicate management information to one
or several IRPManagers concerning WLAN management. The WLAN management NRM IRP
comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral
Information Service and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the Solution Sets for the WLAN NRM IRP**.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.682: \"Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\"
[3] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) Concept and
definitions\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.150 [3] apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.150 [3 and the following apply. An abbreviation defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or 3GPP TS 32.150 [3].
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Solution Set definitions
Since the instances of all of the IOC(s) defined in WLAN NRM IS (3GPP TS
28.682 [2]) are not visible to Basic CM IRP and Bulk CM IRP, there is no need
to define solution sets in the present document.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set
Void.
###### ## Annex B (informative): XML definitions
Void.
#