# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The scope of the present document is:
\- to identify the main key issues associated with business roles, service and
network management and orchestration of a 5G network with integrated satellite
component(s) (whether as NG-RAN or non-3GPP access, or for transport), and
\- to study the associated solutions.
The present document aims at minimising the impacts and complexity of
satellite integration in the existing business models and in management and
orchestration aspects of the current 5G networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets.\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.822: \"Study on using satellite access\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.811: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-terrestrial
networks\".
[5] 3GPP TR 23.737: \"Study on architecture aspects for using satellite
access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"5G Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource
Model (NRM), Stage 2 and Stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"5G performance measurements\".
[9] 3GPP TR 38.821: \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks
(NTN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.313: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks\".
[11] GSMA NG.116 - Generic Network Slice Template Version 3.0 (2020-05-22).
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Geostationary (GEO) satellites** : located precisely in the plane of the
Equator at an altitude of 35,786 km, these satellites rotate at the same rate
as the Earth\'s rotation.
NOTE1: A GEO satellite stands still with respect to Earth Thanks to this
property, a single GEO satellite is sufficient to create a continuous
coverage.
**Highly-Eccentric Orbiting (HEO) satellites** : satellites with a range of
operational altitudes between 7,000 km and more than 45,000 km.
NOTE2: The inclination angle is selected so as to compensate, completely or
partially, the relative motion of Earth with respect to the orbital plane,
allowing the satellite to cover successively different parts of Northern land
masses (e.g. Western Europe, North America, and Northern Asia).
**Low-Earth Orbiting (LEO) satellites** : satellites typically deployed in
constellations with altitude ranging from 500 km to 2,000 km.
NOTE3: The inclination angle of the orbital plane is ranging from 0 to more
than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the International Space
Station and debris, and below the first Van Allen belt.
**Medium-Earth Orbiting (MEO) satellites** : with altitude ranging from 8,000
to 20,000 km.
NOTE4: The inclination angle of the orbital plane ranges from 0 to more than
90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the Van Allen belts.
**Non-Geostationary Orbiting (NGSO) satellites** : These satellites do not
stand still with respect to Earth.
NOTE5: Should service continuity be required over time, a number of satellites
(a constellation) is required to meet this requirement; the lower the altitude
the higher the number of satellites.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AN Access Network
5GC 5G Core Network
CN Core Network
GEO Geostationary satellites
gNB generic Node B
gNB-CU gNB-Central Unit
gNB-DU gNB-Distributed Unit
HEO Highly-Eccentric Orbiting satellites
LEO Low-Earth Orbiting satellites
MEO Medium-Earth Orbiting satellites
ms milli-second, a thousandth of a second.
NOP Network Operator
NS Network Slice
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
QoS Quality of Service
RAN Radio Access Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RU Radio Unit
TBD To Be Defined
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Reference management architecture for integrated satellite components
### 4.1.1 Management architecture for integrated satellite NR-RAT
The reference architecture depicted in figure 4.4.1-1 considers the case of a
3GPP RAN integrating a satellite NR-RAT, possibly together with a Terrestrial
RAT. The NOP operates the 5G network interfacing through API\'s with
Communication Service Customers or Verticals on the one hand and delivering
services to UEs on the other hand. The 3GPP Management system manages the 3GPP
RAN.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Reference architecture for the management of a satellite NR-
RAT
### 4.1.2 Management architecture for integrated non-3GPP satellite RAN
The reference architecture depicted in the following figure considers the case
of a non-3GPP satellite RAN integrated in a 5G network. The NOP operates the
5G network interfacing through API\'s with Communication Service Customers or
Verticals on the one hand and delivering services to UEs on the other hand.
The 3GPP management system manages the 3GPP RAN and the non-3GPP RAN.
Figure 4.1.2-1: Reference architecture for the management of a non-3GPP
satellite RAN
### 4.1.3 Management architecture for integrated satellite transport network
providing 5G backhaul
The reference architecture depicted in figure 4.1.3-1 considers the case of a
satellite transport network providing backhaul to a 5G system. The NOP
operates the 5G network interfacing through API\'s with Communication Service
Customers or Verticals on the one hand and delivering services to UEs on the
other hand. The 3GPP Management system can directly manage the satellite
transport network or work in coordination with the satellite transport network
management system.
**Figure 4.1.3-1: Reference architecture for the management of a satellite
transport network**
## 4.2 Architecture scenarios for 5G networks with an integrated satellite
component
### 4.2.1 Scenario #1: Satellite enabled 3GPP network as a roaming network for
terrestrial network operators
Consider two separate 3GPP networks, one 3GPP network with a satellite access
network and one 3GPP network with a terrestrial access network. Both networks
have their own PLMN ID and have a roaming agreement in place with each other.
Roaming is used by the terrestrial operator to use the 3GPP network with a
satellite access. Both the satellite and terrestrial network have their own
separate 3GPP management domain.
NOTE: This scenario follows the architecture identified in the Satellite
access class scenario in clause 4.1.3 from 3GPP TR 23.737 [5].
{width="6.708333333333333in" height="2.3194444444444446in"}
**Figure 4.2.1-1: Architecture of satellite 3GPP network (green)\ as roaming
network to a terrestrial 3GPP network (blue)**
NOTE: The green and blue networks are separate management domains.
### 4.2.2 Scenario #2: A 3GPP network with a satellite access network and a
terrestrial access network
In this scenario a 3GPP network is composed out of a 3GPP core network, a
terrestrial 3GPP access network and a satellite 3GPP access network, where the
satellite component is also integrated as a 3GPP access network. The satellite
network and the terrestrial network both share the same PLMN and both access
networks are managed by the same 3GPP management system. This architecture
scenario follows the Satellite access class scenario in clause 4.1.1 from 3GPP
TR 23.737 [5].
{width="6.659722222222222in" height="2.173611111111111in"}
**Figure 4.2.2-1: Architecture of 3GPP network with a satellite 3GPP access
network and a terrestrial 3GPP access** **network**
Note: Both access networks are in the same management domains.
### 4.2.3 Scenario #3: 3GPP management system working in coordination with
satellite transport network management system
In this scenario, a satellite transport network has a dedicated management
system. In order to ensure the performance of a communication service, the
3GPP management system works in coordination with the satellite transport
network management system when preparing a network slice for this service.
This coordination assumes that capabilities of the non-3GPP parts can be
obtained and that the slice specific requirements and other requirements on
the non-3GPP parts can be provided. This scenario is illustrated in Figure
4.2.3-1.
**Figure 4.2.3-1: Architecture scenario of 3GPP management system in
coordination with the satellite transport network management system**
### 4.2.4 Scenario #4: 3GPP management system managing the satellite transport
network
In this scenario, a satellite transport network (based on 3GPP or non 3GPP
defined satellite radio access network) is directly managed by the 3GPP
Management system. Therefore, in order to ensure the performance of a
communication service according to the business requirements, the 3GPP
management system has to consider the satellite transport network capabilities
when preparing a network slice for this service. This scenario is illustrated
in Figure 4.2.4-1.
**Figure 4.2.4-1: Architecture scenario of 3GPP management system managing the
satellite transport network**
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use cases related to network slice management
### 5.1.1 Create a network slice instance associated with a satellite RAN
#### 5.1.1.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP wants an NSI which includes a 5GC and a Satellite RAN. The Satellite RAN
is associated with either a Satellite NR-RAT, or can be non-3GPP Satellite
RAT.
#### 5.1.1.2 Description
In some cases, the satellite coverage can be as large as the whole world, or
can be regional (i.e. covering several countries). In some cases, the latency
of the satellite RAN can be significant, from few tens of ms (for LEO) to
several hundreds of ms (see Annex A). Further, the description of the
Satellite RAN can vary according to its characteristics.
The NOP wants an NSI to support a communication service and the NSI to support
to the description of the satellite RAN characteristics.
#### 5.1.1.3 Post-conditions
An NSI which includes CN part and RAN part is created, taking into account the
specific characteristics of the satellite RAN.
### 5.1.2 RAN sharing of a 5G network with satellite components
#### 5.1.2.1 Pre-conditions
A 5G System is composed of a satellite component, that may include:
\- A number of spacecraft, each composed of RUs, possibly gNB-DUs, gNB-CUs
\- A number of Earth radio stations located on ground, interconnected with the
spacecrafts, each composed of RUs and possibly connected to gNB-DUs and/or
gNB-CUs.
The satellite component is interconnected with a 5GC.
It is specified in TS 22.261 that: \"a 5G satellite access network shall
support NG-RAN sharing\".
A number of NOPs want to share the 5G satellite access network and certain
NOPs want to have Network Slicing enabled in the satellite components.
#### 5.1.2.2 Description
The satellite on-board resources are managed by a satellite NOP, to allow the
distribution of the limited RF power and bandwidth resources (for a RU), as
well as for the power consumption and network resources for the digital
processing units. A satellite NOP can therefore act also as VISP (and/or a
Data Center Service Provider (for the spaceborne part)). A NOP that is allowed
access to the satellite components will be allowed to manage slice
configurations in the shared satellite RAN.
#### 5.1.2.3 Post-conditions
The satellite components are configured to support multiple NOPs and NSIs are
created for each NOP according to their requirements (bandwidth, connectivity,
coverage, etc.) and according to the capabilities of each spacecraft and of
the combined capabilities of the network.
### 5.1.3 Creating and managing a network slice associated with satellite
components
#### 5.1.3.1 Pre-conditions
A 5G System is composed of a satellite component, that may include:
\- a Geostationary-satellite network on the Radio Access part,
\- a global LEO access network on the Radio access part, creating potentially
a global overlay.
Further, satellite backhaul can be used for transport between 5G-CN functions
and RAN functions.
These conditions generate latencies between UEs and the 5G-CN that can be
higher or lower than those that could be met if a terrestrial network (radio
or fiber) would be used for access or transport.
#### 5.1.3.2 Description
In TS 22.261 [2], it is specified that a 5G system with satellite access shall
support different configurations where the radio access network is either a
satellite NG-RAN or a non-3GPP satellite access network, or both.
In TS 22.261 [2], it is further required that:
  * The 5G system with satellite access shall support the use of satellite links between the radio access network and core network, by enhancing the 3GPP system to handle the latencies introduced by satellite backhaul.
  * A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to support meshed connectivity between satellites interconnected with inter-satellite links.
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirement from TS
22.261 [2] also applies:
  * A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to select the communication link providing the UE with the connectivity that most closely fulfils the agreed QoS.
An operator wants an NSI to support a communication service and the associated
Network Slice which may include a satellite component that offers the best
service options.
#### 5.1.3.3 Post-conditions
An NSI which includes CN part and RAN part is created, taking into account the
specific characteristics of the satellite RAN and backhaul characteristics.
The performances of the satellite components are monitored to ensure that the
performances of the NSI can be delivered as planned.
### 5.1.4 Network slice instance(s) associated with both a Satellite RAN and a
Terrestrial RAN
#### 5.1.4.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP wants to instantiate an NSI which includes a 5GC, a 3GPP Satellite RAN
and a 3GPP Terrestrial RAN. The Satellite RAN is connected to the 5GC with the
use of RAN sharing.
#### 5.1.4.2 Description
A satellite network could be used to the extend the coverage of an existing
terrestrial 3GPP network. When the Satellite RAN is connected to a 5GC by
using RAN sharing and therefore is connected to the same 5GC, the NOP may want
to deploy a single NSI spanning the Satellite RAN, Terrestrial RAN and 5GC.
Moreover, a NOP may want to specify different network slice service
requirements (data rate, latency, etc.) for the Satellite RAN and Terrestrial
RAN in the same NSI, due to the specific Satellite RAN characteristics.
{width="6.6875in" height="2.1527777777777777in"}
Figure 5.1.4-1: An NSI spanning both a Satellite RAN and a terrestrial RAN
with two examples of network slice service requirements
Note: There may be more than one network slice service requirement for the
Satellite RAN, terrestrial RAN and 5GC.
#### 5.1.4.3 Post-conditions
An NSI is created which spans both the Satellite RAN and the terrestrial RAN,
with specific network slice service requirements for Satellite RAN and
Terrestrial RAN domains.
## 5.2 Use cases for the management of satellite components
### 5.2.1 Use case for NGSO regenerative satellite components
#### 5.2.1.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a 5G network.
The NOP manages the 5G network in accordance with the 5G specifications.
#### 5.2.1.2 Description
The NOP integrates a satellite component based on NGSO regenerative
satellites. NGSO regenerative satellites embark either gNBs or gNB-DUs.
The 5G network management is implemented in such a way that moving gNBs or
gNB-DUs can be managed.
#### 5.2.1.3 Post-description
The NOP operates a 5G network that manages the satellite component.
### 5.2.2 Use case for NGSO transparent satellite components
#### 5.2.2.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a 5G network.
The NOP manages the 5G network in accordance with the 5G specifications and
wants to integrate one or multiple NGSO transparent satellites into a 5GS.
#### 5.2.2.2 Description
The NOP integrates a satellite component based on NGSO transparent satellites.
A SaT/UE will connect to a 5GC via a NGSO regenerative satellite component. A
gNB may use a special remote radio unit to connect via one or multiple
regenerative satellite(s) to the SaT/UE, as illustrated in clause B.2.
The 5G network management is implemented in such a way that moving
regenerative satellite components could be managed.
#### 5.2.2.3 Post-description
The NOP operates a 5G network that manages a 5GS with transparent satellite
component(s).
## 5.3 Use cases for monitoring of satellite components
### 5.3.1 Use case for monitoring of performances of NGSO satellite components
with split gNBs
#### 5.3.1.1 Goal
When considering an NGSO satellite component with split gNB, the goal is to
allow the monitoring of average packet delays on the RAN, as delays would be
varying between gNB-DUs and gNB-CUs.
#### 5.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a 5G network.
The NOP monitors the 5G network performances in accordance with the 5G
specifications.
The NOP integrates a satellite component. NGSO satellites embark gNB-DUs on
board, gNB-CUs are located on ground (see Annex B of the present document).
As the NGSO satellites move along their orbit, the distance between the gNB-
DUs embarked on the satellites and the served CUs varies significantly.
#### 5.3.1.3 Description
The monitoring the packet delay is implemented in a such a way so that the
varying distance between the gNB-DUs and the gNB-CUs are taken into account.
KPIs such as Average delay DL, CU-UP, Average delay on F1-U, Average delay DL
in gNB-DU, are monitored.
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-description
The 5G network can monitor the performances of NGSO satellite components with
split gNBs.
### 5.3.2 Use case for monitoring of average delay on DL-Air Interface for MEO
and GEO satellite components
#### 5.3.2.1 Goal
The goal is to allow the monitoring of the delay on the DL-Air Interface when
a MEO or GEO satellite component for which the HARQ process has been modified
with respect to a terrestrial RAN.
#### 5.3.2.2 Pre-conditions
A NOP operates a 5G network.
The 5G network as operated by the NOP satellite RAN supporting NR
#### 5.3.2.3 Description
To cope with the effects of satellite delay and associated RTT, the HARQ
operation is disabled or modified when compared to terrestrial RAN.
The management system of the 5G network is designed to provide a measured of
the average delay on DL-Air Interface for MEO and GEO satellite components
without an HARQ process.
#### 5.3.2.4 Post-description
The management system monitors the average delay on the DL-Air Interface for
MEO and GEO satellite components.
### 5.3.3 Multi-RAT load-balancing associated with both a Satellite RAN and a
Terrestrial RAN
#### 5.3.3.1 Pre-conditions
A NOP wants to optimize radio resource of multi-RATs by supporting load-
balancing between satellite RANs and terrestrial RANs. The Satellite RAN and
Terrestrial RAN are simultaneously connected to the 5GC.
A NOP provides the following capabilities: radio resource management and
traffic flow control in RAN, multi-RAT resource control in 5GC, and multi-RAT
resource management in 3GPP Management.
#### 5.3.3.2 Description
For efficient multi-RATs load balancing, the following capabilities and
procedures are applied across different parts of 5GS. Figure 5.3.3-1 shows
capabilities required for the load balancing.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.0208333333333335in"}
**Figure 5.3.3-1: Capabilities for Multi-RATs load-balancing for Satellite and
terrestrial RANs**
Both satellite and terrestrial 3GPP NR RANs have capabilities of its own radio
resource management (e.g., dynamic selection of the appropriate radio bearers)
and traffic flow control which dynamically decides, for each in progress
connection, the traffic bit rates that have to be managed by each cell of the
gNB. The 5GC has multi-RATs resource control capability which performs optimal
load-balancing control of multi-RATs. 3GPP Management includes multi-RAT
resource management capability which coordinates with multi-RAT resource
control capability in 5GC for optimal multi-RAT load-balancing.
Multi-RAT load-balancing procedure may follow the following steps:
1\. UE connection procedures to satellite and terrestrial RATs are performed
based on the connection profile information such as UE type, service type, and
user\'s connection preferences, etc.
2\. When connections are setup, uplink and downlink traffic is sent from/to
the UE.
3\. Satellite and terrestrial gNBs perform link statistics measurement.
4\. Satellite and terrestrial gNBs send measurement reports about radio links
periodically during the connection to the multi-RAT resource control module.
5\. The multi-RAT resource control module decides load-balancing policy based
on the reports received from gNBs and performance measurement data in the core
network, the traffic is split into two RATs or switched from the currently
active RAT to another RAT by the traffic flow control depending on the load-
balancing policy.
6\. At the end of the connection, resource control module updates the quality
of connection in the connection profile information. The same information is
also sent to multi-RAT resource management module in 3GPP management system.
#### 5.1.3.3 Post-conditions
Optimal Multi-RAT load-balancing is completed across both the Satellite RAN
and the terrestrial RAN, with specific multi-RAT resource usage requirements
for Satellite RAN and Terrestrial RAN domains. As a result, the following
improvement can be achieved:
  * Improvement of the overall data rates (throughput) to mobile UEs in 5G networks for both DL and UL.
  * Improvement of the optimal exploitation of 5G network resources while meeting the 5G KPIs.
  * Guarantee of service continuity (reliability) in mobile UEs.
# 6\. Potential Requirements
NOTE: The word "shall" is used in several potential requirements. This word
should not be taken as an indication of a mandatory requirement given that
these are only potential requirements to be possibly used in future normative
specifications.
## 6.1 Network slice management
### 6.1.1 Network slice instance(s) associated with a satellite RAN
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.1.01] An NSI created for the management of services of a 5G
system with satellite access, shall include parameters to describe the
specific characteristics of the satellite access.
### 6.1.2 Network slice instance(s) associated with satellite RAN sharing
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.2.01] In a 5G network with satellite access, the satellite
components shall have the capability to provide NSIs and NSSIs for each of the
NOP sharing the satellite access network.
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.2.02] In a 5G network with satellite access, each of the
NOPs sharing the satellite access shall have the capability to create, manage,
monitor, activate, deactivate and terminate NSIs and NSSIs.
### 6.1.3 Network slice instance(s) associated with satellite component
latencies
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.3.01] A Network Slice created for the management of
services of a 5G system with satellite access, shall include parameters to
handle the latency associated with a satellite access.
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.3.02] A Network Slice created for the management of
services of a 5G system with satellite transport network, shall include
parameters to handle the latency associated with the corresponding satellite
network.
### 6.1.4 Network slice instance(s) associated with both a Satellite RAN and a
Terrestrial RAN
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-1.4.01] A single NSI created with both satellite access and
terrestrial access, shall have the possibility to set separate network slice
service requirements for the Satellite RAN and Terrestrial RAN domains.
## 6.2 Management of satellite components
### 6.2.1 Management of NGSO regenerative satellite components
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-2.1-01] In a 5G network integrating an NGSO regenerative
satellite RAT, the 5G network shall have the capability of managing moving
gNBs or gNB-DUs.
### 6.2.2 Management of NGSO transparent satellite components
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-2.2-01] In a 5G network integrating an NGSO transparent
satellite RAT, the 5G network shall have the capability to manage one or
multiple moving regenerative satellite component(s).
## 6.3 Monitoring of satellite components
### 6.3.1 Monitoring of NGSO satellite component with split gNBs
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-3.1.01] In a 5G network integrating a NGSO component with
split gNBs, it shall possible to monitor the packet delay KPIs.
### 6.3.2 Monitoring of average delay on DL-Air Interface with MEO or GEO
satellite components
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-3.2.01] In a 5G network integrating a MEO or GEO satellite
components, it shall be possible to monitor the average delay on the DL-Air
Interface.
### 6.3.3 Multi-RAT load-balancing associated with both a Satellite RAN and a
Terrestrial RAN
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-3.3.01] Multi-RAT load-balancing shall be provided to assure
optimal resource usage of the Satellite RAN and Terrestrial RAN domains.
[REQ-FS_5GSAT_MO-3.3.02] Multi-RAT load-balancing shall be provided to
guarantee service continuity (reliability) in mobile UEs.
# 7 Potential Solutions
## 7.1 Potential solutions for network slice management
### 7.1.1 Potential solutions to create and manage a network slice associated
with satellite components
#### 7.1.1.1 Solution #1: Adapt ServiceProfile to support a network slice
instance associated with satellite components.
As is described in TS 28.541 [7], the NetworkSlice IOC may refer to one or
multiple ServiceProfiles which describe the properties of the network slice
related requirements. A dedicated NetworkSliceSubnet instance may be used for
a network slice instance which includes a satellite RAN.
To achieve this, the ServiceProfile should include satellite RAN specific
attributes. Most attributes defined for stationary terrestrial RAN may also be
used for a satellite RAN component, since most attributes do not put strict
constraints on the value which is set. For example, the latency attribute
which sets the service requirement of the packet transmission latency through
RAN, core and transport network, can be used without impact to describe the
latency service requirement in an NSI which includes a satellite component
with a round trip delay of up to 500 ms.
One of the attributes which is possibly impacted by the use of a satellite RAN
is the coverageArea-attribute. This attribute specifies the geographic region
where the NSI is accessible. In NG.116 [11] two proposals are described to
define the coverage area of a network slice, one based on listing the gNBs
and/or sectors where the slice is offered and one based on a specific
geographical area. Since the coverage area of a specific satellite gNB may not
be fixed with respect to earth in some cases (GEO satellites, or MEO and LEO
satellites without an earth fixed beam), specifying the coverage area based on
a geographical area may be the most applicable when using satellite RAN. When
using the architecture shown in Figure B.2-4 for example, specifying the
coverage area of the NSI by listing the gNBs may be unfavourable. The gNB may
be non-stationary with respect to the earth and will therefore not always be
connected to the same core and transport network which may be part of a
specific NSI. Specifying the coverage area based on a geographical area may
solve this issue.
## 7.2 Potential solutions for the management of satellite components
### 7.2.1 Potential solutions to allow a network slice instance to be
associated with both a Satellite RAN and a Terrestrial RAN
#### 7.2.1.1 Solution #1: Extend SliceProfile to specify separate service
requirements for Satellite RAN and Terrestrial RAN
The NOP can set specific service requirements for both the Terrestrial RAN and
the Satellite RAN in the SliceProfile [7] to instantiate an NSSI which
comprises a Terrestrial AN NSSI and Satellite AN NSSI.
To set separate performance requirements for the Terrestrial RAN and Satellite
RAN the perfReq [7] attribute can be extended to allow distinct performance
requirement entries for both RANs such as the experienced data rate, latency
and coverage area.
### 7.2.2 Potential solutions for the management of NGSO regenerative and
transparent satellite components
#### 7.2.2.1 Solution #1: Prevent PCI conflicts, PCI confusion and continuous
NCR-reconfigurations by using SON functions
Satellite RAN can be comprised out of either LEO, MEO, GEO satellites or a
combination of these three. LEO and MEO satellites do not have a fixed
position relative to the earth and travel at high speed in trajectories around
the earth. The possible satellite beam coverage area may therefore change in a
continuous fashion, as can also be seen in Figure 7.2.2.1. This is also
described in more detail in clause A.2.
A LEO, MEO or GEO satellite can either be working in transparent mode or in
regenerative mode. When a satellite is configured in transparent mode, no data
processing will be done locally in the satellite. The incoming signal will be
received, amplified, and transmitted back to earth. A regenerative satellite
may actually demodulate/decode and process the incoming signal before sending
data back to earth. A regenerative satellite may therefore embark a gNB/gNB-
DU/gNB-CU and use inter satellite links to communicate with other satellite
gNBs. A transparent satellite may be coupled to a gNB which is located on
earth, this gNB will use a satellite gateway to transmit to the satellite
which reflects the signal back to earth.
In case of MEO and LEO satellites with moving beams the cell coverage may not
be fixed to a specific location on earth, and since the possible coverage area
of a satellite may even span multiple countries, it would be possible that the
neighbouring (terrestrial) cells of the satellite gNB will change
continuously. This may result in continuous NCR reconfigurations and PCI
conflicts and/or PCI confusion since the NTN cell coverage may overlap with
terrestrial RAN. This effect is also described in clause 8.5.3 from TR 38.821
[9].
Figure 7.2.2.1: Example of a MEO or LEO satellite flying over multiple
geographical areas. Here it is assumed that the TAC will be fixed on earth.
Picture taken from TR 38.821 [9]
To prevent these issues, it would be possible to use/extent the SON ANR and
SON PCI re-configuration functions from TS 28.313 [10] and adapt these to
support continuously moving cells. This way, the PCI re-configuration
procedure may deconflict PCI\'s when an PCI conflict happens between an NTN
cell and a terrestrial cell. The ANR could be used to automatically configure
new neighbouring cells when the NTN cell coverage moves over the earth
atmosphere. The SON ANR and SON PCI functions should be fast enough to keep up
with the moving satellites which may have new neighbouring cells every 5 - 30
seconds.
In case of GEO satellites or MEO and LEO satellites with earth fixed beams,
there is no need to adapt the SON ANR and SON PCI re-configuration functions
since the coverage area of the satellite RAN will be fixed to a geographical
area on earth\'s surface.
## 7.3 Potential solutions for the monitoring of satellite components
### 7.3.1 Solution to monitor delay on the DL-Air Interface with MEO or GEO
satellite components
#### 7.3.1.1 Solution #1: Adapt the Average delay DL air-interface measurement
and Distribution of delay DL air-interface measurement to support cases where
HARQ feedback is disabled
The round-trip delay between a UE and a MEO or GEO satellite can be very large
when compared to a traditional terrestrial case. This effect requires changes
to the HARQ process, so that it is able to cope with these high latencies. In
TR 38.821 [9] it is proposed to optimise the HARQ process for MEO and GEO
satellites by increasing the number of HARQ processes and to add an option to
disable or enable HARQ feedback for the cases when the increased number of
HARQ processes is still not sufficient. A new feedback mechanism may be added
to support DL transmission feedback [9], but the solution has not converged
yet.
The Average delay DL air-interface measurement (clause 5.1.1.1.1 of TS 28.552
[8]) and Distribution of delay DL air-interface measurement (clause 5.1.1.1.2
of TS 28.552 [8]) use the HARQ feedback ACK message to verify that the
transmitted and timed RLC SDU packet was received successfully by the UE. This
HARQ ACK may not be transmitted when the HARQ feedback is disabled for MEO and
GEO satellite links.
Therefore, both the Average delay DL air-interface measurement and
Distribution of delay DL air-interface measurement may use the new feedback
mechanism [9] to support DL transmission feedback for the case that HARQ
feedback is disabled and UM mode is used. This should be indicated in the
measurement conditions clauses 5.1.1.1.1c and 5.1.1.1.2c of TS 28.552 [8].
When the new feedback mechanism [9] is not supported, the conditions should
indicate that this measurement is not available when UM mode is used and HARQ
feedback is disabled. For AM mode the RLC ACK can still be used, when HARQ
feedback is disabled.
### 7.3.2 Solution for multi-RAT load-balancing associated with both a
Satellite RAN and a Terrestrial RAN
#### 7.3.2.1 Solution #1: Switch traffic from currently active RAT to another
RAT
The multi-RAT resource control module decides traffic switching load-balancing
policy based on the reports received from satellite and terrestrial gNBs and
performance measurement data in the core network. The performance monitoring
of a link between a UE and the terrestrial gNB and core network (between UPF
and the gNB) is based on the solutions defined in TS 28.552 [2]. Multi-RAT
resource control utilizes resource utilization analytics function specified in
the clause 6.2.2 of the TR28.809 [3] to make a load-balancing policy decision.
#### 7.3.2.2 Solution #2: Split traffic into two RATs
The multi-RAT resource control module decides traffic splitting load-balancing
policy based on the reports received from satellite and terrestrial gNBs and
performance measurement data in the core network. The performance monitoring
of a link between a UE and the terrestrial gNB and core network (between UPF
and the gNB) is based on the solutions defined in TS 28.552 [2]. Multi-RAT
resource control utilizes resource utilization analytics function specified in
the clause 6.2.2 of the TR28.809 [3] to make a load-balancing policy decision.
# 8 Conclusions and Recommendations
This study has identified:
\- Reference management architectures and scenarios for integrated satellite
components
\- Use cases and solutions related to the management of network slices which
include satellite components
\- Use cases and solutions related to the general management of satellite RAN
with regenerative/transparent satellite components
\- Use cases and solutions related to the monitoring of satellite RAN
It is recommended to consider the following aspects for normative work:
\- Specify/extend SON concepts to allow for moving non-terrestrial gNBs
\- Adapt the performance measurements which make use of the HARQ process,
which may be unavailable when using satellite RAN
\- Extend the 5G NRM [7] to support satellite components, for example by
adding ServiceProfile attributes
\- Specify the approach to use load balancing between terrestrial RAN and non-
terrestrial RAN to guarantee service continuity and reliability
###### ### Annex A: Characteristics of satellite systems
# A.1 General
This annex describes the main characteristics of satellite systems when
considering their integration with the 5G system.
# A.2 Class of orbit
On the one hand, our planet attracts as a main body the much smaller
satellite, which motion is dictated as a consequence by the laws of Kepler. On
the other hand, the environment of Earth can be also constraining: the higher
density of the atmosphere, debris from launchers and former satellites in the
lower altitudes, as well as higher energy particles trapped in the Van Allen
belts between 2,000 and 8,000 km\'s altitudes are to be avoided. These two
constraints contribute to defining several classes of orbits that are used for
communication satellites:
**\- Geostationary** (GEO) satellites, located precisely in the plane of the
Equator at an altitude of 35,786 km, these satellites rotate at the same rate
as the Earth\'s rotation: a GEO satellite stands still with respect to Earth.
Thanks to this property, a single GEO satellite is sufficient to create a
continuous coverage.
**\- Non-Geostationary Orbiting** (NGSO) satellites: NGSO satellites do not
stand still with respect to Earth. Should service continuity be required over
time, a number of satellites (a constellation) is required to meet this
requirement; the lower the altitude the higher the number of satellites.
Different classes of NGSO satellites are listed below:
\- **Low-Earth Orbiting** (LEO) satellites, with altitude ranging from 500 km
to 2,000 km, and with inclination angle of the orbital plane ranging from 0 to
more than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the International
Space Station and debris, and below the first Van Allen belt.
\- **Medium-Earth Orbiting** (MEO) satellites, with altitude ranging from
8,000 to 20,000 km. The inclination angle of the orbital plane ranges from 0
to more than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the Van Allen
belts.
\- **Highly-Eccentric Orbiting** (HEO) satellites, with a range of operational
altitudes (the orbit of such satellites being designed for the spacecraft to
be exploited when the vehicle is closer to its apogee \- the higher part of
the orbit -) between 7,000 km and more than 45,000 km. The inclination angle
is selected so as to compensate, completely or partially, the relative motion
of Earth with respect to the orbital plane, allowing the satellite to cover
successively different parts of Northern land masses (e.g. Western Europe,
North America, and Northern Asia).
{width="2.4641699475065617in" height="1.5375098425196851in"}
Figure A.2-1: Illustration of the classes of orbits of satellites
# A.3 Geometrical coverage of satellite and propagation delay
As depicted in the following figure, the theoretical geometrical coverage of a
satellite is associated to its altitude and the minimum elevation angle under
which the satellite is seen by the UE above the horizon.
{width="2.9618055555555554in" height="2.0305555555555554in"}
Figure A.3-1: Illustration of the geometrical coverage of a satellite
The following figure illustrates the geometrical coverage for a LEO satellite
and for geostationary-satellites:
{width="3.526388888888889in" height="2.1375in"}
Figure A.3-2: Illustration of the geometrical coverage of a LEO satellite and
of GEO satellites
The following figures provide elevation, distance and geometrical coverage
related figures for different classes of satellites:
{width="4.496527777777778in" height="5.091666666666667in"}
Figure A.3-3: Geometrical coverage radius, propagation distance and delay for
different orbits
NOTE: The above figure provides only examples, some designers may decide to
select lower altitudes as this contribute lowering the propagation delay.
The following figure illustrates the number of satellites that are necessary
for a constellation of satellites to provide continuous coverage for an
elevation angle ranging from 5 to 10 degrees. Global coverage may not be fully
achieved for MEO or GEO satellite, however in this case the vast majority of
the world population is covered.
{width="3.1375in" height="1.20625in"}
Figure A.3-4: Illustration of number satellites in a constellation for
continuous Earth coverage
# A.4 Type of satellite communication payloads
Communication payloads embarked on-board a satellite are of two main
categories, for any type of satellite (whether GEO or NGSO):
**\- Transparent payloads:** the electromagnetic waves that are transmitted
from the Earth\'s surface are converted by a satellite receive antenna into an
electric signal which is channel filtered and amplified by a low-noise
amplifier (LNA). The signal is then frequency converted. A high-power
amplifier (HPA) delivers finally the signal to a transmitting antenna
generating a reconditioned electromagnetic wave towards the Earth surface
where receive station are located.
**\- Regenerative payloads:** an On-Board Processor (OBP), is inserted between
the LNA and the HPA. This OBP allows to convert the air interface between the
uplink (from Earth to satellite) and the down link (from satellite to Earth).
It allows to correct bits or packet in errors before retransmitting them, or
to route packets between beams. Ultimately any network function can be
implemented, at the expense of power and mass, thanks to an OBP (including gNB
CU\'s or DU\'s, or any function attached to a CN).
**\- Inter-Satellite Links (ISL):** can also interconnect regenerative
satellite payloads. Through ISL\'s satellites can be interconnected through a
dedicated mesh-network.
# A.5 Air interfaces
Air interfaces can include:
\- 3GPP defined air interfaces, such as the New Radio;
\- Non-3GPP defined air interfaces.
Unless otherwise indicated, 3GPP NR will be assumed in the present document.
# A.6 General considerations on the use of satellite networks
In relation to the coverage associated with Non-Geostationary Satellite
Networks, or Geostationary-Satellite ones, the use of satellite networks is
related to:
\- The complement of terrestrial networks where these terrestrial networks are
not available, permanently for physically (maritime or aeronautical
constraints) or economic reasons, or for temporary reasons associated to local
unavailability of a terrestrial of network (drought, Earth quake) or local
overload of the demand;
\- Satellite networks can be used for broadcast over large areas of a same
content, for multicast (with acknowledge of delivery of content), for unicast;
\- Use cases are related to the actual of altitude of the satellite platforms
and the associated delay of propagation.
###### ### Annex B: Reference Models for Satellite Components Integration in
the 5G System
# B.1 Elementary satellite network architecture
The physical implementation of a satellite network architecture can always be
sketched as displayed in the following figure:
{width="6.496527777777778in" height="1.6409722222222223in"}
Figure B.1-1: Reference Satellite Access Network Architecture
A satellite network is always composed of:
\- One, or more, satellite(s), embarking a telecommunication payload.
\- Satellite enabled UEs, such as IoT devices, broadband vehicular or fixed
terminals.
\- A Hub, including an RF Earth station, and a data centre including (co-
located or not) RAN and CN related functions. The hub is also interconnected
to (a) data network(s).
\- UEs interconnected to the hub through the satellite.
## B.2 Reference architecture with satellite enabled NR-RAN
The following figure depicts a reference architecture for a direct access with
a satellite enabled NR-RAN (see below):
{width="5.511111111111111in" height="0.7708333333333334in"}
Figure B.2-1: 5GS with Satellite enabled NR-RAN
Knowing the possible nature of satellite payloads (transparent or re-
generative), the instantiation of this architecture can have several forms:
In a first implementation, the satellite is transparent, the NR signals are
generated from gNB\'s from a satellite enabled NR-RAN that are located on
ground. The satellite is equivalent to a Radio Frequency (RF) Remote Unit, and
is full transparent to the New Radio protocols, including the physical layer
(see below).
{width="7.030555555555556in" height="1.1222222222222222in"}
Figure B.2-2: 5GS with transparent satellite enabled NR-RAN
In a second implementation, the satellite is regenerative. The satellite
payload implements a gNB-DU as part of a satellite enabled NR-RAN. Some of the
protocols of the NR are processed by the satellite. A Satellite Radio
Interface (SRI) transports the F1 protocol between the on-ground CU and the
on-board DU (it can be the NR (see below)).
{width="7.022916666666666in" height="1.1145833333333333in"}
Figure B.2-3: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN and distributed
gNB
In a third implementation, the satellite is regenerative. The satellite
payload implements a full gNB supporting a satellite enabled NR-RAN. A
Satellite Radio Interface (SRI) transports the N1/N2/N3 interfaces between the
on-ground 5G CN and the on-board gNB-CU (see below).
{width="7.190972222222222in" height="0.9770833333333333in"}
Figure B.2-4: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN and on-board gNB
One can note that with a regenerative implementation (either with distributed
gNB or not) a 5GS can have a global coverage, providing a single 5G CN with
global or regional (continental or sub-continental) coverage as well. This is
valid for GEO or LEO (see below).
{width="5.511111111111111in" height="3.282638888888889in"}
Figure B.2-5: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN, with ISL for
regional or global coverage
Another configuration (see below) may consist in satellites each embarking a
gNB supporting a satellite enabled NR-RAN, and 5G CN\'s accessing these
gNB\'s, as described in the following figure, where specific (or not)
satellite radio interfaces are used to handle control and user planes.
{width="5.34375in" height="3.2444444444444445in"}
Figure B.2-6: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN, with ISL &
multiple 5G CN connectivity
#