# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document investigates charging enhancements on 5G data
connectivity domain charging, control plane data transfer domain charging and
Monitoring Events charging for 5GS CIoT for the corresponding functionalities
based on TS 23.501 [3], TS 32.251 [4], TS 32.255 [6], TS 32.253 [7] and TS
32.278 [8]:
\- Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation
\- Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD)
\- Support for Monitoring Events
\- Support of rate control of user data, including small data rate control
\- Category M UEs differentiation
\- Exception report
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.255: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
data connectivity domain charging; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.253: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Control Plane (CP) data transfer domain charging\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.278: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Monitoring event charging\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 32.254: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Exposure function northbound Application Program Interfaces (APIs) charging\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], TS 23.501 [3], TS 23.502 [4], TS 32.251 [2], TS 32.255 [6], TS 32.253
[7], TS 32.254 [10], TS 32.278 [8] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
5GS 5G System
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
API Application Program Interface
CDR Charging Data Record
CHF Charging Function
CIoT Cellular Internet-of-Things
CP Control Plane
CPCN Control Plane data transfer Charging Nodes
CTF Charging Trigger Function
MECN Monitoring Event Charging Node
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
NEF Network Exposure Function
NF Network Function
NIDD Non-IP Data Delivery
PS Packet Switched
SCEF Service Capability Exposure Function
SMF Session Management Function
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General
The Packet Switched (PS) domain charging supports charging of CIoT
functionalities (e.g., the usage of the radio interface for CIoT, CP CIoT
Optimisation and Serving PLMN Rate Control) as described in TS 32.251 [2].
CIoT functionality is provided by the visited and home networks when the
networks are configured to support CIoT. It applies to both the non-roaming
case and the roaming case and some functionality may be dependent upon the
existence of appropriate roaming agreements between the operators.
In 5GS CIoT has been evolved and refers to 5GS optimisations and functionality
for support of Cellular Internet-of-Things (Cellular IoT, or CIoT) described
in TS 23.501 [3] according to service requirements described in TS 22.261
[12]. The specific functionality is described in the affected procedures and
features of 5G service aspect, in TS 23.501 [3], TS 23.502 [4] and TS 23.503
[5].
## 4.2 5G data connectivity domain charging
The specification of converged offline and online charging for 5G Data
Connectivity domain based on stage 2 description in TS 23.501 [3] is described
in TS 32.255 [6].
This charging aspect includes the converged offline and online charging
architecture and scenarios specific to the 5G Data Connectivity domain, as
well as the mapping of the common 3GPP charging architecture specified in TS
32.240 [9] onto the 5G Data Connectivity domain.
The charging functions specified for the 5G data connectivity charging support
PDU session in SMF, service data flows, within PDU session and QoS flows
within PDU session. The SMF supports Nchf interface toward CHF, to collect and
send charging information as described in TS 32.255 [6].
## 4.3 CP data transfer charging
### 4.3.1 General
Functions for NIDD may be used to handle Mobile Originated (MO) and Mobile
Terminated (MT) communication for unstructured data (also referred to as Non-
IP), as specified in TS 23.501 [3]. The UE may obtain an Unstructured PDU
session to the NEF during the PDU Session Establishment procedure. Whether or
not use of NIDD API should be invoked is determined during a PDU session by
the presence of a \"NEF Identity for NIDD\". The NEF exposes the NIDD APIs
described in TS 23.502 [5] on the N33/Nnef reference point.
### 4.3.2 CP data transfer charging with SCEF
CP data transfer domain charging is specified in TS 32.253 [7]. Service
Capability Exposure which enables the 3GPP network to securely expose its
services and capabilities provided by 3GPP network interfaces to external 3rd
party service provider applications. The highlighting excerpt that shows 3GPP
Nodes involved for Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) between the UE and the SCS/AS
is described in Figure 4.3.2.1.
Figure 4.3.2.1: 3GPP Architecture Service Capability Exposure for Non-IP Data
Delivery
As described in TS 32.253 [7], the following Control Plane data transfer
Charging Nodes (CPCN), functioning as the CTF, may generate accounting metrics
sets for Control Plane data transfer CDRs:
\- the SCEF, to record Control Plane data transfer;
\- the IWK-SCEF, to record Control Plane data transfer;
\- the MME, to record Control Plane data transfer (optional).
As described in TS 32.254 [10], for offline charging, SCEF functioning as the
CTF, may generate accounting metrics sets for Northbound Application Program
Interfaces (APIs) CDRs:
\- the SCEF, to record Application Program Interfaces transaction.
As described in TS 32.254 [10], for online charging, northbound API online
charging is based on SCEF utilizing Ro interface and application towards the
OCS.
### 4.3.3 CP data transfer charging with NEF
NEF is specified in TS 23.501 [3] to provide Exposure of capabilities and
events, NF capabilities and events may be securely exposed by NEF for e.g. 3rd
party, Application Functions, Edge Computing. The Non-roaming architecture for
Network Exposure Function in reference point representation is depicted in
figure 4.3.3.1.
Figure 4.3.3.1: Non-roaming architecture for Network Exposure Function in
reference point representation
Converged charging is be performed by the NEF interacting with CHF using Nchf
service.
The charging requirements for northbound API for Exposure Function based on
NEF Northbound API as described in TS 32.254 [10], is used to specify the
offline and online charging description for Northbound Application Program
Interfaces (APIs) and NEF charging CHF CDR.
## 4.4 Monitoring event charging
### 4.4.1 General
The Monitoring Events feature is intended for monitoring of specific events in
the 3GPP system and reporting such Monitoring Events via the NEF, as described
in TS 23.501 [3]. For CIoT, the list of supported monitoring events is
specified in table 4.15.3.1-1 of TS 23.502 [4].
### 4.4.2 Monitoring event charging with SCEF
The charging aspect for Monitoring Events, based on the functional stage 2
description of SCEF is specified in TS 32.278 [8]. The figure 4.4.2.1 shows
overall architecture for Service Capability Exposure which enables the 3GPP
network to securely expose its services and capabilities provided by 3GPP
network interfaces to external 3^rd^ party service provider applications,
which includes Monitoring Event functionality described in TS 32.278 [8].
Figure 4.4.2.1: 3GPP Architecture for Service Capability Exposure with SCEF
For offline charging the following Monitoring Event Charging Nodes (MECN),
functioning as the CTF, may generate accounting metrics sets for Monitoring
Event CDRs:
\- the MME, to record Monitoring Events;
\- the SGSN, to record Monitoring Events;
\- the IWK-SCEF, to record Monitoring Events.
As described in TS 32.254 [10], for online charging SCEF functioning as the
CTF may generate accounting metrics sets for Northbound Application Program
Interfaces (APIs) CDRs:
\- the SCEF, to record Application Program Interfaces transaction.
As described in TS 32.254 [10], for online charging, northbound API online
charging is based on SCEF utilizing Ro interface and application towards the
OCS.
### 4.4.3 Monitoring event charging with NEF
NEF is specified in TS 23.501 [3] to provide Exposure of capabilities and
events, NF capabilities and events may be securely exposed by NEF for e.g.
3^rd^ party, Application Functions, Edge Computing. The Non-roaming
architecture for Network Exposure Function in reference point representation
is depicted in figure 4.4.3.1.
Figure 4.4.3.1: Non-roaming architecture for Network Exposure Function in
reference point representation Converged charging is be performed by the NEF
interacting with CHF using Nchf service
The charging requirements for northbound API for Exposure Function based on
NEF Northbound API as described in TS 32.254 [10], is used to specify the
offline and online charging description for Northbound Application Program
Interfaces (APIs) and NEF charging CHF CDR.
# 5 Use cases and key issues
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Use case #1: Control plane optimization in 5G data connectivity
domain charging
The Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation is used to exchange user data between
the UE and the SMF as payload of a NAS message in both uplink and downlink
directions, avoiding the establishment of a user plane connection for the PDU
Session as described in TS 23.501 [3].
When the Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation feature is used and the PDU
session type is unstructured, the SMF selects either NEF or UPF based on
information in the UE\'s subscription as described in TS 23.501 [3]. The
control plane is used with Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimization instead of
establishment data plane connection, the SRB1bis is established for NB-IoT
rather using dedicated bearer. The cost of data plane connection and dedicated
radio bearer are reduced by this optimization for 5GS CIoT.
During the PDU Session Establishment procedure the AMF indicates to the SMF
that Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation is available for data transmission.
If a PDU session only uses Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation, the AMF
provides a Control Plane Only Indicator to the SMF during the PDU session
establishment. A UE and SMF receiving the Control Plane Only Indicator for a
PDU session always uses the Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation for this PDU
session.
### 5.1.2 Use case #2: Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) in control plane data
transfer domain charging
Functions of NIDD is a 5GS CIoT feature to handle Mobile Originated (MO) and
Mobile Terminated (MT) communication for unstructured data (also referred to
as Non-IP), that delivery to the AF using the NIDD API or using the UPF via a
PtP N6 tunnel.
The use case begins during the PDU session establishment, the UE may obtain an
Unstructured PDU session to the NEF and a NEF Identity for NIDD may be
presented. The AMF determines the use of the Control Plane CIoT 5GS
Optimisation, and can indicate Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation to SMF
during PDU session establishment. For Unstructured PDU Session Type, the SMF
checks the determination of NIDD API invoking for a PDU session depends on the
presence of NEF Identity for NIDD for the DNN/S-NSSAI combination in the
subscription. SMF selects that NEF and uses the NIDD API for the PDU session
if determines.
The NEF is responsible to expose the NIDD API on N33/Nnef reference point.
In control plan data transfer domain charging, offline charging is supported
by Control Plane data transfer charging Nodes (CPCN), with the CTF. The 5GC
NFs (e.g., AMF, SMF and NEF) may collect the information on the use of NIDD
API and generating the charging information, related to the use of CP 5GS CIoT
optimization and NIDD API during the unstructured PDU session toward to NEF.
The 5GS CIoT charging may require 5GS NFs to support collecting the uses of
NIDD API during a PDU session.
### 5.1.3 Use case #3: Support of Serving PLMN Rate Control in control plane
data transfer domain charging
As described in TS 23.501 [3], the support of rate control of user data in 5GS
CIoT is described as two 5GS CIoT features, which are Serving PLMN Rate
control and Small Data Rate Control. Serving PLMN Rate Control as a 5GS CIoT
feature allows the serving PLMN to protect AMF and the Signalling Radio
Bearers in the NG-RAN from the load generated by NAS Data PDUs.
The use case begins during PDU session establishment and PDU session
modification, SMF can indicate the support of PDU Session Serving PLMN Rate
Control information to UE and UPF/NEF. That indicated information of Serving
PLMN Rate Control is used for NAS Data PDUs.
During a PDU session, the UE can limit the rate to generate uplink NAS Data
PDUs comply with the Serving PLMN policy, the UPF or NEF can limit the rate to
generate downlink NAS Data PDU comply with the rate indicated for the PDU
Session.
The indication information of Serving PLMN Rate Control, the change of Serving
PLMN policy and enforcement of limit per PDU Session may be collected as
charging information and CDRs regarding the use of this 5GS CIoT feature.
In control plane data transfer domain charging, the corresponding 5GC NFs
those involve the Serving PLMN Rate control in a PDU connection to NEF may
distinguish the indication information of Serving PLMN Rate Control and
generate charging information during PDU session establishment and PDU session
modification.
The potential charging requirement of control plane data transfer domain
charging for this use case is: **REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-04**.
### 5.1.4 Use case #4: Support of Small Data Rate Control in control plane
data transfer domain charging
As described in TS 23.501 [3], the support of rate control of user data in 5GS
CIoT is described as two 5GS CIoT features, which are Serving PLMN Rate
control and Small Data Rate Control.
Small Data Rate Control allows HPLMN operator to offer customer services in
form of \'number of packets per time unit\'. The SMF may determine the Small
Data Rate Control based on operator policy, subscription, DNN, S-NSSAI, RAT
type etc. The SMF can send a Small Data Uplink Rate Control command to the UE
and inform the UPF or NEF of Small Data Rate Control.
During a PDU session, the UE may comply with this uplink rate control
instruction. If the UE exceeds the uplink \'number of packets per time unit\',
the UE may still send uplink exception reports if allowed. When the PDU
Session is released, the AMF can stores Small Data Rate Control Status so that
can be used for a subsequent establishment of a new PDU session. The SMF may
receive the stored Small Data Rate Control Status during PDU session
establishment, then provides the parameters to the UE and UPF/NEF.
The use of Small Data Rate Control and enforcement of limit per PDU Session
may be collected as charging information and CDRs regarding the use of this
5GS CIoT feature.
In control plane data transfer domain charging, the corresponding 5GC NFs
those involve the Serving PLMN Rate control in a PDU connection to NEF may
distinguish information of Small Data Rate Control l and generate charging
information.
The potential charging requirements of control plane data transfer domain
charging for this use case are: **REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-05**.
### 5.1.5 Use case #5: Handover 5GS CIoT charging with EPS interworking
The use case describes the scenario when handover from 5GS to EPS and handover
from EPS to 5GS regarding 5GS CIoT features. The use case begins when 5GS CIoT
UE handover procedure starts.
During interworking from 5GS to EPS, if Small Data Rate Control is used the
PGW-C+SMF from PGW-U+UFF or from SCEF+NEF, passes the Small Data Rate Control
Status to the AMF for AMF to store.
If Small Data Rate Control applies on PDU Session, the AMF can provide Small
Rate Control Status information from the H-SMF.
During interworking from EPS to 5GS, if the AMF has stored APN Rate Control
Status and the PDU Session is considered a new first PDU Session to a DNN that
is the same as the APN in stored APN Rate Control Status and interworking with
EPC, the AMF sends the APN Rate Control Status to the SMF. If APN Rate Control
Status is received from the AMF then the SMF provides the configured APN Rate
Control Status to the PGW-U+UPF.
During PDU session release procedure, if the released PDU Session used APN
Rate Control in EPC then the PGW-U+UPF provides the APN Rate Control Status to
the SMF. The SMF provides the APN Rate Control Status to the AMF.
The charging information related to small data rate control as 5GS CIoT
feature should be considered in EPC interworking scenarios. The related
information exchanged during interworking 5GS to EPS support the use of APN
rate control parameters when 5GS CIoT UE backs to EPS. In 5G data connectivity
domain charging and control plane data transfer charging, charging information
related the interworking between 5GS and EPS should be collected by 5GS.
The potential charging requirements of 5G data connectivity domain charging
for this use case are: **REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-06, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-07**.
### 5.1.6 Use case #6: Support for monitoring events charging
The Monitoring Events feature is intended for monitoring of specific events in
the 3GPP system and reporting such Monitoring Events via the NEF. A number of
monitoring events are supported by 5GS CIoT.
The network operator provides 5GS access service with 5GS CIoT features. The
application service provider (ASP) provides a service for the 5G CIoT Ues. The
network operator and the application service provider, holding AF, have
business relationship to toward application function regarding 5GS CIoT
applications. The NOP wants to sell monitoring capabilities to the ASP, to
allow the ASP to enhance their service offerings. The NOP wants to charge for
the subscription event to the monitoring as well as per the actual
notifications when these events occur. The charges have those information
about the UE or group of Ues monitored.
The 5GS NF providing the capability to subscribe to monitoring and get
notifications is the NEF and the 5G NFs, and entity that holds the ASP
application is the AF.
The network operator provides the monitoring reporting to AF for particular
5GS CIoT application. The network operator can collect and record the
subscribed event reporting as charging information for CDR generation.
The NOP wants to sell monitoring capabilities to the ASP, to allow the ASP to
enhance their service offerings. The NOP wants to charge for the subscription
event to the monitoring as well as per the actual notifications when these
events occur. The charges have information about the UE or group of Ues
monitored.
### 5.1.7 Use case #7: The access service of 5GS CIoT
The support to 5GS Cellular IoT service is based on optimizations regarding
NB-IoT and Category M technologies. The 5GS CIoT service is provided by home
and visited network when the network is configured to support CIoT.
The network operator provides the access service to 5GS CIoT Ues. The access
service to 5G network for 5GS CIoT features, provides the access of the
massive amount of devices to 5GS network with 5GS CIoT optimizations. Then,
the communication services like the massive access of NB-IoT devices with
business values, such as power saving, small data rate but large number of
devices are possible for those 5GS CIoT ues. The network operator provides the
access service with 5GS CIoT features and addresses those business use cases.
As the network operator provides massive access to device and communication
service with particular 5GS CIoT optimizations, the network operator can
enable the access and use of 5GS, collects and records the 5GS CIoT access
information (e.g., NB-IoT RAT type) and usage information (in a PDU session)
in term of NB-IoT technologies.
The network operator can provide the access service to MTC type communication
with broadband access to 5GS as category M devices. The category M technology
is used for high data rate access for MTC device (e.g., wearable device) in
5GS. The network operator provides the access service with a set of 5GS CIoT
features like control plane optimization with N3 data path toward UPF, the
schedule data rate control of user data etc.
The network operators can enable the access of 5GS CIoT LTE-M radio access
type for category M devices, collects and records the 5GS CIoT access
information (e.g., LTE-M RAT type) and usage information (in a PDU session) in
term of Category M technologies.
### 5.1.8 Use case #8: Charging support in home-routed roaming scenario
As described in TS 23.501 [3], 5GS CIoT features are provided by the visited
and home networks when the networks are configured to support CIoT.
The network operators provide 5GS CIoT access in home networks and visited
networks. They apply to roaming scenario depend on roaming agreements between
network operators. The home network operator, based on the subscription, the
access information (e.g., RAT type) and 5GC CIoT UE behaviour information
(control plane 5GS CIoT optimisation), provides the network access of 5GS CIoT
Ues. The visited network operator provides the network access of 5GS CIoT
based on access information (e.g., RAT type), rate control of user data and
5GS CIoT UE behaviour information (control plane 5GS CIoT optimisation),
according to the roaming agreements.
### 5.1.9 Use case #9: Support of rate control of user data
As described in TS 23.501 [3], the support of rate control of user data in 5GS
CIoT is described as two 5GS CIoT features, which are Serving PLMN Rate
control and Small Data Rate Control.
The network operator provides 5GS CIoT features regarding the network access
and 5GS use for 5GS CIoT Ues. The rate control of user data is motivated as a
set of 5GS CIoT features to protect mobile network (e.g., control plane
signalling) or provide a capability to schedule use per time duration
regarding the amount of 5GS CIoT Ues.
The network operator provides a capability to 5GS usage for 5GS CIoT service
on the number of message per day. In case that the small data rate control is
used, the SMF informs the small data rate control information to NEF/UPF. The
network operator is capable to configure the small data rate control
parameters (e.g., number of messages per day) to the network and network holds
and transfer small data control status for a PDU session.
## 5.2 Potential charging requirements
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-01** The charging aspect of 5G data connectivity domain
charging shall support charging of Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-02** The 5GS CIoT charging should support charging of
control plane data transfer based on 5G system architecture.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-03** The charging aspect of north bound API usage should
support collecting charging information related to use of NIDD API.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-04** The charging aspect of control plane data transfer
domain should support collecting charging information related to Serving PLMN
rate control for 5GS CIoT based on 5G system architecture.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-05** The charging aspect of control plane data transfer
should support collecting charging information of Small Data Rate Control for
5GS CIoT based on 5G system architecture.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-06** The charging aspect of 5G data connectivity domain
charging should support collecting charging information related to 5GS CIoT
for interworking to EPS procedures.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-07** The charging aspect of control plane data transfer
should support collecting charging information related to 5GS CIoT for
interworking to EPS procedures.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-08** The charging aspect of 5GS CIoT should support
collection charging information related to monitoring event
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-09** The charging aspect may support collecting charging
information related to the access information of 5GS CIoT in 5G system.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-10** The charging aspect should support collecting
charging information of access from NB-IoT and LTE-M RAT.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-11** The charging aspect of 5GS CIoT should support
collection charging information related to 5GS CIoT for home-routed roaming
scenario.
**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-12** The charging aspect of 5GS CIoT should support
collecting charging information related to 5GS CIoT small data rate control.
## 5.3 Mapping of use cases
In agreed use cases in this document, the mapping from use cases to particular
charging aspects of SA5 charging are shown as following in table 5.3.1.
Table 5.3.1: The mapping of use cases of 5GS CIoT to charging aspects
* * *
Charging domain 5G data connectivity domain charging CP data transfer domain
charging Monitoring event domain charging
* * *
Use case of 5GS CIoT charging Control plane optimization\ Charging support of
NIDD with NEF\ Monitoring event charging with NEF Rate control of user data\
Rate control of user data\  
Exception report\ Handover 5GS CIoT charging in EPS interworking\  
Handover 5GS CIoT charging in EPS interworking\ Charging support in home-
routed roaming scenarios\  
Charging support in home-routed roaming scenarios\ Access service of 5GS CIoT  
Access service of 5GS CIoT
* * *
## 5.4 Charging scenarios and key issues
### 5.4.1 5G data connectivity domain charging
#### 5.4.1.1 Key issues for 5GS CIoT charging in 5G data connectivity domain
charging
The purpose of this clause is to describe the key issues charging enhancement
for 5GS CIoT features regarding 5G data connectivity domain charging.
Considering the use cases described in clause 5.1 and potential requirements
(**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-01, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-02 and REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-06,
REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-09, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-10, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-11,
REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-12)** as described in clause 5.2, the key issues in
solution for 5G data connectivity domain charging for investigation can
include:
Key issue 1a: Identify the interaction(s) with SMF and potential charging
information in 5G data connectivity domain charging;
Key issue 1b: Identify the interaction(s) with SMF and potential charging
information in case of EPC interworking.
Key issue 1c: Identify the interaction(s) with SMF and potential charging
information in home-routed roaming scenario.
Key issue 1d: Identify the interaction(s) with SMF and potential charging
information for access service of 5GS CIoT devices.
#### 5.4.1.2 Potential solutions
##### 5.4.1.2.0 General
The clause describes the charging solution of **key issue 1a, 1b, 1c and 1d**
to identify the charging enhancement to 5G data connectivity domain charging.
The charging enhancement in 5G data connectivity domain are based on the
charging aspect specified in TS 32.255 [6]. The description of 5G data
connectivity domain charging architecture can be seen in clause 4.2 of this
document.
The potential solutions that enhance the charging aspect in this clause may
support the charging of following 5GS CIoT optimizations:
  * Control Plane 5GS CIoT optimization
  * Rate control of user data
  * The access service of 5GS CIoT devices
  * 5GS CIoT optimization information transfer during EPS interworking
\- The handover of 5GS CIoT devices in home-routed roaming scenario.
##### 5.4.1.2.1 Charging enhancements of PDU session charging
The clause below describes the solution of PDU session charging of **key issue
1a** for 5GS CIoT optimization in non-roaming scenarios. This is an
enhancement to PDU session charging in 5G data connectivity domain charging as
described in TS 32.255 [6].
In this solution, the PDU session establishment charging is updated based on
the message flow described in clause 5.2.2.2.2-1 of TS 32.255 [6] as
following.
Step 1-7. The PDU session establishment as described. Some 5GS CIoT
optimization information are included during PDU session establishment. The
AMF sends Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation to the SMF if determines. The
AMF sends small data rate control to the SMF if it has stored in the AMF for
the PDU session. The RAT type (NB-IoT or LTE-M) can be included in service
request during PDU session establishment.
Step 8-9. The steps are described in clause 5.2.2.2.2 of TS 32.255 [6].
Step 9ch-a. The step is described is in clause 5.2.2.2.2 of TS 32.255 [6]. The
possible charging information related to 5GS CIoT optimizations when supports
are as following:
\- the indication of Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation,
\- small data rate control indication,
\- control plane only,
\- RAT type (NB-IoT or LTE-M).
9ch-b. The CHF opens CDR for this PDU session.
9ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Initial] to the
SMF.
Step 10-16. The PDU session establishment or modification as described in
clause 5.2.2.2.2 of TS 32.255 [6].
16ch-a. The step is described is in clause 5.2.2.2.2 of TS 32.255 [6]. The
possible charging information related to 5GS CIoT optimizations when supports
are as following:
\- the indication of Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation;
\- small data rate control indication;
\- control plane only;
\- RAT type (NB-IoT or LTE-M).
16ch-b. The CHF updates CDR for this PDU session.
16ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Update] to the
SMF.
Step 17-19. The steps of PDU session modification are described in clause
5.2.2.2.2 of TS 32.255 [6].
##### 5.4.1.2.2 Solution of charging enhancement for 5GS CIoT access service
##### 5.4.1.2.2.1 Solution for SMF to interact with CHF for 5GS CIoT access
service
The clause describes the charging solution of key issue 1d to reuse the PDU
session charging in 5G data connectivity domain charging to enable the
charging of access service of 5GS CIoT devices. This is an enhancement to PDU
session charging in 5G data connectivity domain charging as described in TS
32.255 [6].
Based on the charging enhancements described in clause 5.4.1.2.1, 5.4.1.2.3
and 5.4.1.2.4 in 5G data connectivity domain charging.
The potential solution of charging of access service for 5GS CIoT devises can
use the charging enhancement as described to collect charging information like
subscriber ID, RAT type, PDU session information and charging information
related to 5GS CIoT optimizations in 5G data connectivity domain charging.
For example, the charging system is capable to account the access service for
a NB-IoT devices to use small data rate control, unstruectured PDU sessions.
##### 5.4.1.2.3 PDU session charging for Home-routed roaming scenario
The clause below describes charging enhancement of key issue 1c of PDU session
charging for 5GS CIoT optimization in Home-routed roaming scenario. The UE
requested PDU session establishment work flows in Home-routed roaming scenario
is described in clause of 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 23.502 [4]. The charging aspect and
charging work flow is described in clause 5.2.2.12.2 in TS 32.255 [6].
The charging enhancement for 5GS CIoT optimization during PDU session
establishment in Home-routed roaming scenario is based on the message flow
described in figure 4.3.2.2.2-1 of TS 23.502 [4] and figure 5.2.2.12.2.1 of TS
32.255 [6] description.
**Charging enhancements of PDU session establishment in Home-routed roaming
scenario for 5GS CIoT is updated based on** the message flow in figure
5.2.2.12.2.1 of TS 32.255 [6] as following.
> 1-3a. UE initiates a new PDU session. V-SMF and H-SMF selection by the AMF
> as described in clause 5.2.2.11.7 of TS 32.255 [6]. If Control Plane CIoT
> 5GS Optimisation is enabled for the PDU Session, the AMF selects V-SMF and
> H-SMF that supports the Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation as described the
> step 2 in clause 4.3.2.2.2 of TS 23.502 [4]. Assuming that AMF sends Small
> Data Rate Control to V-SMF during PDU session establishment process.
>
> 3ch-a. The UE is identified as a roamer, the CHF is selected accordingly.
>
> 3ch-b. A Charging Data Request [Initial] is sent to CHF, with charging
> information as following:
\- RAT Type,
\- Small Data Rate Control Status,
\- Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation.
> 3ch-c. The CHF opens a CDR
>
> 3ch-d. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Initial].
>
> 3b-11. The steps are described in clause 5.2.2.12.3 of TS 32.255 [6]. The
> V-SMF sends Small Data Rate Control indication Status and Control Plane CIoT
> 5GS Optimisation Indication to H-SMF in step 6 as described in clause
> 4.3.2.2.2 of TS 23.502 [4].
>
> 11ch-a. Based on UE is identified as roaming in a different PLMN, the CHF is
> selected accordingly.
>
> 11ch-b. A Charging Data Request [Initial] is sent to CHF, may include
> charging information as following:
\- RAT Type,
\- Small Data Rate Control Status,
\- Control Plane CIoT 5GS Optimisation.
> 11ch-c. The CHF opens a CDR (indicating \"out-bound roamer\").
>
> 11ch-d. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Initial] as
> described in clause 5.2.2.12.3 of TS 32.255 [6].
>
> The steps from 12a-b to 19a-b.The steps are described in clause 5.2.2.12.3
> of TS 32.255 [6].
>
> The steps from 19ch-a to 19ch-c. The steps are described in clause
> 5.2.2.12.3 of TS 32.255 [6].
>
> 20-23. The steps are described in clause 5.2.2.12.3 of TS 32.255 [6].
>
> 23ch-a. Counts per rejected QFI (s) are closed. A Charging Data Request
> [Update] is sent to CHF to report if needed.
>
> 23ch-b. The CHF updates the CDR.
>
> 23ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Update] to
> the H-SMF.
##### 5.4.1.2.4 PDU session charging in case of EPS interworking
The clause below describes charging enhancement of key issues 1b of PDU
session charging for 5GS CIoT optimization in EPS interworking scenarios. The
non-roaming architecture for interworking between 5GS and EPC/E-UTRAN is
described in figure 4.1.3.1 of TS 23.501 [3]. The message flows of PDU session
charging for interworking with EPC are described in TS 32.255 [6].
The charging enhancement for EPS to 5GS handover using N26 interface is based
on the message flow described in clause 4.11.1.2.2 of TS 23.502 [4] and clause
5.2.2.11.3 of TS 32.255 [6] description.
**The charging enhancements of PDU session handover of** EPS to 5GS handover
using N26 interface is updated based on the message flow in figure
5.2.2.11.3.1 of TS 32.255 [6] as following:
> 0ch. A charging session between the PGW-C+SMF and CHF exists for this PDU
> session with multiple QoS Flows associated to the default bearer and
> dedicated bearers.
>
> 1-3. The AMF determines that a PDU Session supports EPS interworking with
> N26.
>
> 4\. The AMF includes in the Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext an indication
> whether the PDU Session supports EPS Interworking with N26. If the AMF
> stores APN Rate Control Status, the same as the APN in stored APN Rate
> Control Status and interworking with EPC is enabled for this PDU Session,
> the AMF sends the APN Rate Control Status to the PWG-C+SMF, as described in
> 4.11.5.3 of TS 23.502 [4].
>
> 12\. If APN Rate Control Status is received from the AMF then the SMF
> provides the APN Rate Control Status to the PGW-U+UPF.
>
> 13ch-a. All counts are closed and a Charging Data Request [Update] is sent
> to CHF, if required by \"RAT type change\" trigger. The APN Rate Control
> Status as part of charging information, may be included in charging
> information.
>
> 13ch-b. The CHF updates CDR for this PDU session.
>
> 13ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Update] to
> the PGW-C+SMF.
#### 5.4.1.3 Evaluation
The potential solutions of charging enhancement to 5G data connectivity domain
charging are described in clause 5.4.1.2.1, 5.4.1.2.2.1, 5.4.1.2.3 and
5.4.1.2.4.
The following enhancements based on the charging aspect of 5G data
connectivity domain charging can be considered to support charging
enhancements for 5GS CIoT:
\- The support of SMF to charging information collection and report of 5GS
CIoT.
\- The support of SMF to charging information collection and report of access
service of 5GS CIoT devices.
### 5.4.2 Control Plane data transfer domain charging
#### 5.4.2.1 Key issues of 5GS CIoT charging in control plane data transfer
domain charging
The purpose of this clause is to describe the key issues of charging
enhancement for 5GS CIoT features regarding control plane data transfer domain
charging.
Considering the use cases described in clause 5.1 and potential requirement
(**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-02, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-03, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-04,
REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-05, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-07, REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-12**) as
described in clause 5.2, the key issues in solution for control plane data
transfer domain charging for investigation can include:
\- Key issue 2a: Identify which network functions in 5G system potentially
provides charging information.
\- Key issue 2b: Identify the interaction(s) with network function(s) and
potential charging information in control plane data transfer domain charging.
#### 5.4.2.2 Potential solutions
##### 5.4.2.2.0 General
The clause describes the charging solution of **key issue 2a and 1b** to
identify the charging enhancement to ontrol plane data transfer domain
charging.
The enhancement on charging aspect of control plane data transfer domain
charging are based on the charging aspect specified in TS 32.254 [10] and TS
32.253 [7]. The background of control plane data transfer domain charging are
described in 4.3 in this document.
The potential solutions of charging aspect in this clause can support the
charging enhancement of following 5GS CIoT optimizations:
NIDD.
Rate control of user data.
5GS CIoT optimization information transfer during EPS interworking.
The handover of 5GS CIoT devices in home-routed roaming scenario.
It is assumed that the particular 5GC NFs are considered as a control plane
data transfer charging node (CPCN) based on service based architecture as
specified in TS 32.501 [3]. The possible 5GC NFs as CPCN can be as following:
AMF, SMF and NEF.
##### 5.4.2.2.1 Charging enhancement for NEF based NIDD
##### 5.4.2.2.1.1 Charging architecture in control plane data transfer domain
charging for 5GS CIoT
The SMF embedding the CTF or the NEF embedding the CTF, generate charging
events to the CHF for the control plane data transfer domain charging. Figure
5.4.2.2.1.1.1 shows the architectural options for the converged charging.
Figure 5.4.2.2.1.1.1: The converged charging architecture for control plane
data transfer domain charging
##### 5.4.2.2.1.2 Message flow for SMF to interact with CHF in case of NEF
based NIDD
Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) it is a means for delivering data via a PDU
Sessions of type \"Unstructured\". Converged charging and session based
charging are used in this solution.
The Figure 5.4.2.2.1.2.1 shows the charging enhancements of SMF and CHF and
procedure when UE performs the PDU Session establishment with PDU Sessions of
type \"Unstructured\" toward NEF.
Figure 5.4.2.2.1.2.1: Charging enhancements of SMF and CHF for NIDD
Step 1. The step 1 is described in clause 4.25.2 of TS 23.502 [4].
Step 2. As described in TS 23.502 [4], if the subscription information
corresponding to DNN and S-NSSAI includes the \"NEF Identity for NIDD\" (NEF
ID), the SMF creates a PDU Session towards the NEF. The SMF sends
Nnef_SMContext_Create Request with 5GS CIoT optimization related indications
(NIDD information, S-NSSAI, Small Data Rate Control Status) message towards
the NEF.
Step 2ch-a. The SMF sends charging data request [initial] to CHF, with
charging information related 5GS CIoT (Small Data Rate Control Status, Control
plane only indicator and 5GS CIoT optimization related indications).
Step 2ch-b. CHF opens CHF CDR for the PDU Session of NIDD.
Step 2ch-c. CHF sends Charging data response to the SMF.
Step 3. The NEF creates an NEF PDU session Context and send invokes
Nnef_SMContext_Create Response to the SMF
Step 4. The step 4 is to finish the PDU session establishment as described in
clause 4.25.2 of TS 23.502 [4].
##### 5.4.2.2.2 Charging enhancement to north bound API charging for NEF based
NIDD
##### 5.4.2.2.2.1 Charging architecture in control plane data transfer domain
charging for 5GS CIoT {#charging-architecture-in-control-plane-data-transfer-
domain-charging-for-5gs-ciot-1 .H6}
The NEF embedding the CTF generates charging events to the CHF for the north
bound API charging. Figure 5.4.2.2.2.1.1 shows the architectural options for
the converged charging.
Figure 5.4.2.2.2.1: The converged charging architecture for control plane data
transfer domain charging
##### 5.4.2.2.2.2 Flow for north bound API charging in case of NIDD
configuration {#flow-for-north-bound-api-charging-in-case-of-nidd-
configuration .H6}
The NIDD configuration procedure is the configuration triggered by AF or NEF
initiated. The NEF embedding CTF in north bound API charging may store and
collect charging information of NIDD configuration.
The Figure 5.4.2.2.2.2.1 shows the message flow of charging enhancement in
case of NIDD configuration.
Figure 5.4.2.2.2.2.1: The message flow of charging enhancement for NIDD
configuration
Step 1-2, the NEF initiated or AF triggered NIDD configuration messages
exchange as described in clause 4.25.3 TS 23.502 [4]. The AF ID, and NEF ID
are included and sent to AF for asking the NEF configuration.
Step 2ch-a, NEF is triggered to send Charging data request [Event] to CHF. The
NEF ID, AF ID, the MTC provider information can be included as part of
charging information.
Step 2ch-b, CHF opens CHF CDR.
Step 2ch-c, CHF sends Charging data response to the NEF.
Step 3-7, the rest messages of NIDD configuration procedure as described in
clause 4.25.3 TS 23.502 [4].
##### 5.4.2.2.2.3 Flow for north bound API charging in case of NEF based NIDD
Non-IP Data Delivery (NIDD) it is a means for delivering data via a PDU
Sessions of type \"Unstructured\". Converged charging and PEC based charging
are used in this solution.
The Figure 5.4.2.2.3.1 shows the charging enhancements of SMF and CHF and
procedure when UE performs the PDU Session establishment with PDU Sessions of
type \"Unstructured\" toward NEF.
Figure 5.4.2.2.3.1: Message flow of north bound API charging for NIDD
Step 1. The step 1 is described in clause 4.25.2 of TS 23.502 [4].
Step 2. As described in TS 23.502 [4], if the subscription information
corresponding to DNN and S-NSSAI includes the \"NEF Identity for NIDD\" (NEF
ID), the SMF should create a PDU Session towards the NEF. The SMF sends
Nnef_SMContext_Create Request with 5GS CIoT optimization related indications
(NIDD information, S-NSSAI, [Small Data Rate Control parameters], [Small Data
Rate Control Status]) message towards the NEF.
Step 2ch-a. The NEF sends charging data request [Event] to CHF, with
corresponding charging information.
Step 2ch-b. CHF opens CHF CDR for the PDU Session of NIDD.
Step 2ch-c. CHF sends Charging data response [Event] to the SMF.
Step 3. The NEF creates an NEF PDU session Context and send invokes
Nnef_SMContext_Create Response to the SMF.
Step 4. The step 4 is to finish the PDU Session establishment as described in
clause 4.25.2 of TS 23.502 [4].
#### 5.4.2.3 Evaluation
The potential solutions of charging enhancements to north bound API charging
for NEF based NIDD are described in clauses 5.4.2.2.2.1, 5.4.2.2.2.2 and
5.4.2.2.2.3.
The following enhancements based on the charging aspect of north bound API
charging for NEF can be considered to support charging enhancements for PDU
session of NIDD:
\- The support of NEF to charging information collection and report of NIDD
configuration.
\- The support of NEF to charging information collection and report of deliver
data in an \"Unstructured\" PDU session of NIDD.
The potential solutions of charging enhancements to SMF for NIDD are described
in clauses 5.4.2.2.1.1.
  * The support of SMF to charging information collection and report of dilever data in an \"Unstructured\" PDU session of NIDD.
### 5.4.3 Monitoring event domain charging
#### 5.4.3.0 General
The purpose of this clause is to describe the key issues of charging
enhancement for 5GS CIoT features regarding monitoring event domain charging.
Considering the use cases described in clause 5.1 and potential requirement
(**REQ-3GPPCH-5GSCIoT-08**) as described in clause 5.2, the key issues in
solution for control plane data transfer domain charging for investigation can
include:
\- Key issue 3a: Identify which network functions in 5G system potentially
provides charging information;
\- Key issue 3b: Identify the interaction(s) with network function(s) and
potential charging information in monitoring event domain charging.
#### 5.4.3.1 Potential solutions
##### 5.4.3.1.1 Charging architecture in Monitoring event domain charging for
5GS CIoT
The NEF embedding the CTF generates charging events to the CHF for monitoring
event domain charging. Figure 5.4.1.2.1.1 shows the architectural options for
the converged charging.
Figure 5.4.3.1.1.1: The converged charging architecture for monitoring event
domain charging
In this architecture, the converged charging has capability to support
monitoring event domain charging via Nchf interface.
##### 5.4.3.1.2 Message flow for monitoring event charging for NEF
The Network Exposure Function (NEF) supports external exposure of capabilities
of network functions. Monitoring capability is comprised of means that allow
the identification of the 5G network function suitable for configuring the
specific monitoring events, detect the monitoring event, and report the
monitoring event to the authorised external party.
The support of 5G CIoT the list of supported monitoring events is specified in
Table 4.15.3.1-1 of TS 23.502 [4].
The NEF embedded CTF in monitoring event charging domain can store and collect
charging information related to monitoring event for 5GS CIoT.
The Figure 5.4.1.2.2.1 shows the message flow that NEF embedded CTF collects
charging information and generate charging message to CHF, in case of AF
configuration monitoring events for network exposure.
Figure 5.4.3.1.2.1: Charging enhancement for 5GS CIoT in monitoring event
charging domain for event monitoring configuration
Step 1, The AF configures a monitoring event via the NEF.
Step 2-3. NEF configures the monitoring event in 5GC NFs (UDM), and UDM
configures the monitoring events.
Step3ch-a, NEF is triggered to send Charging data request [Event] to CHF. The
NEF ID, AF ID, and the indication of monitoring event configuration.
Step 2ch-b, CHF opens CHF CDR.
Step 2ch-c, CHF sends Charging data response to the NEF.
Step 4-5, the rest messages are the event exposure subscribe response toward
to AF via NEF.
The figure 5.4.3.2.2.2 shows the message flow that NEF embedded CTF collects
charging information and generate charging message to CHF, in case of
receiving monitoring event notifications.
Figure 5.4.3.1.2.2: Charging enhancement for 5GS CIoT in monitoring event
charging domain for event monitoring notification
Step 1, The AF subscribes to one or several Event(s) (identified by Event ID)
and provides the associated notification endpoint of the AF.
Step 2-3. The NEF subscribes to received Event(s) (identified by Event ID) and
provides the associated notification endpoint of the NEF. The 5GC NFs (e.g.,
UDM, AMF, SMF, NSACF) start monitor event subscribed.
Step3ch-a, NEF is triggered to send Charging data request [Event] to CHF. The
NEF ID, Event ID, and the indication of monitoring event.
Step 2ch-b, CHF opens CHF CDR.
Step 2ch-c, CHF sends Charging data response to the NEF.
Step 4-5, the rest messages are the event exposure subscribe response toward
to AF via NEF.
#### 5.4.3.2 Evaluation
The potential solutions of charging enhancement to monitoring event domain
charging are described in clause 5.4.3.1.2.
The north bound API charging via NEF can be used to support charging
enhancements for monitoring event domain charging for 5GS CIoT:
\- The support of NEF to charging information collection and report of event
monitoring configuration.
\- The support of NEF to charging information collection and report of event
monitoring notification.
# 6 Conclusion and recommdnations
This technical report investigate the related charging aspects, including 5G
data connectivity domain charging, Control plane data transfer domain
charging, Monitoring event domain charging and the North bound API charging,
and the charging use cases of 5GS CIoT that can be applicable to those
charging aspects. The technical report identifies the potential solutions to
key issues in charging use cases, evaluate potential solutions. Considring the
broad scope to charging aspects invoved in this technical report, this
technical report provides conclusions with a shorten list of charging aspect,
and the recommendations to standardization as the following:
\- The charging enhancement to support 5GS CIoT features based on charging
aspect of 5G data connectivity domain charging.
\- The charging enhancement to collect charging information related to 5GS
CIoT devices based on charging aspect of the 5G data connectivity domain
charging and charging aspect of 5G connection and mobility domain charging.
#