# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the potential use cases, requirements, and
solutions for the management of edge computing architecture and requirement
defined by TS 23.558 [2] and TS 23.501 [4]. The document provides conclusions
and recommendations on the next steps in the standardization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.558 \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.758 \"Study on application architecture for enabling Edge\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501 \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.531 \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 V3.3.1 \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 3; Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging
Specification\".
[7] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 V3.4.1 \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV)
Release 3; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.550 \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532 \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.622 \"Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.552 \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.545 \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols, and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
In addition of the following, definition defined in [2], [4], and [13] shall
apply.
**ECSP Management System** : A 3GPP Management System belonging to a mobile
network operator or a 3^rd^ party service provider providing management of
edge computing services.
**PLMN Management System** : A 3GPP Management System belonging to a mobile
network operator supporting management of edge computing services.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
Note: Abbreviations defined in [2], [4], and [13] apply.
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Concept of edge computing management
Figure 4.1-1 shows the roles and relationship of service providers involved in
the deployment of edge computing services (see annex B in TS 23.558 [2]). The
application service provider (ASP) is responsible for the creation of edge
application servers (EAS) and application clients (AC). The edge computing
service provider (ECSP) is responsible for the deployment of edge data
networks (EDN) that contain EAS, and edge enable server (EES) that provides
the configuration information to edge enabler client (EEC), enabling AC to
exchange application data traffic with the EAS. PLMN operator is responsible
for the deployment of 5G network functions, such as 5GC and 5G NR.
The ASP can have service agreement with one or more ECSP(s) and may request
the ECSP to deploy one or more EAS in the EDN. Upon receipt of ASP\'s request,
the ECSP should deploy the EAS(s), and then register the EAS(s) to the EES in
the EDN. The ECSP can have service agreement with one or more PLMN operators
and may request the PLMN operators to connect EAS and EES with 5GC network
functions. The edge configuration server (ECS) may reside in PLMN operator or
ECSP, and provide functions needed for the edge enabler client (EEC) to
connect with an EES (see clause 6.3.4 in [1]).
3GPP management system is intended to manage the 3GPP defined network
functions (e.g., UPF, PCF, EES, ECS, EAS, EASF, ...), and services. To support
the edge computing management, the 3GPP management system consists of:
\- PLMN management system: responsible for the orchestration and management of
the mobile networks.
\- ECSP management system: responsible for the orchestration and management of
the EDN.
NOTE: In the case that PLMN operator owns the EDN, then 3GPP management system
is equivalent to PLMN management system that is responsible for the
orchestration and management of the mobile networks and EDN.
Figure 4.1-1: Relationship of service providers in the edge computing network
deployment
Figure 4.1-2 depicts an example of edge computing networks, where the mobile
networks are connected to 2 EDNs that each contains 2 EASs. In the EDN #1, the
EAS(s) are connected to the UPF via the N6 interface to carry the applications
data traffic, while EAS(s) and EES are connected to the PCF via the N5 /
Edge-7 / Edge-2 interfaces (see TS 23.501 [4], and the definition of Edge 2
and 7 in TS 23.558 [2], where the EES acting as a trusted AF in 5GC), on which
information can be sent to SMF to influence traffic routing. In the EDN #2,
EAS(s) and EES are connected to NEF via the N33 / Edge-7 / Edge-2 interfaces
(see TS 23.501 [4], where the N33 is the reference point between NEF and AF),
on which information can be sent to SMF via PCF to influence traffic routing
that supports the traffic management in TS 23.558 [2]. The ECS residing in the
mobile networks is connected to NEF in the mobile networks via N33 / Edge-8
interface and EES via Edge-6 interfaces.
Figure 4.1-2: Edge computing networks
The reference architectures for supporting Edge Computing are based on the
reference architectures specified in clause 4.2 of TS 23.501 [4]. The
following reference architectures are further depicting the relationship
between the 5GS and EAS for non-roaming and LBO roaming scenarios which
specified in clause 4,2 of TS 23.548 [13].
Figure 4.1-3 depicts 5GS architecture for non-roaming scenario supporting Edge
Computing with UL CL/BP.
Figure 4.1-3: 5GS providing access to EAS with UL CL/BP for non-roaming
scenario
The Edge Application Server Discovery Function (EASDF) specified in clause 4,2
of TS 23.548 [13] for EAS discovery and selection, handling the DNS messages
and so on. And the EASDF has user plane connectivity with the PSA UPF over N6
for the transmission of DNS signaling exchanged with the UE.
NOTE: Only the control plane of EASDF is depicted in the figure, the user
plane between the EASDF and the UPF (i.e., over which the DNS messages are
exchanged) is part of N6. Additionally, the EADSF may have direct connectivity
with the local parts of one or more Data Networks (DN).
# 5\. Management Aspect of Edge
An architecture for enabling edge service is defined in TS 23.558[2]. The
architecture includes various edge components and interfaces working together
to enable edge services. EAS, EES and ECS, as defined in [2], are considered
to be edge components deployed in a 3GPP network as 3GPP Network Functions.
The management aspect of edge includes (not limited to) the following:
\- Lifecyle management of EDN as a 3GPP Local Data Network.
\- Lifecycle management of edge components including EAS, EES and ECS.
\- Performance Assurance of edge components including EAS, EES and ECS.
\- Fault Supervision of edge components including EAS, EES and ECS.
\- Virtual resource management for edge components including EAS, EES and ECS.
EDN capability management including the type and capabilities of EAS(s)
available in the EDN.
3GPP 5GS supports Edge computing deployed in the DN beyond the PSA UPF. The
reference architecture for supporting Edge Computing is defined in TS 23.548
[13]. In this architecture, a new network function of Edge Application Server
Discovery Function (EASDF) is specified for supporting Edge Computing.
The management aspect of 5GC for supporting Edge Computing includes (not
limited to) the following:
\- Lifecycle management of EASDF and corresponding interface.
\- Performance Assurance of EASDF and corresponding interface.
\- Fault Supervision of EASDF and corresponding interface.
# 6 Use cases and potential requirements
## 6.1 Business level use cases
## 6.1.1 The deployment of edge application server(s)
#### 6.1.1.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the ASP to instantiate or terminate one or more EAS on
the EDN (see clause 6.5.2.5 TS 23.558 [2]). It is assumed that the ECSP and
the PLMN operator can be part of the same organization.
##### 6.1.1.1.2 Description
###### 6.1.1.1.2.1 EAS Instantiation
1\. The ASP requests the ECSP to instantiate one or more EAS with deployment
requirements.
2\. The ECSP selects the EDN to host the EAS, based on the deployment
requirements.
3\. The ECSP instantiate the EAS at the EDN that meets the deployment
requirements.
4\. The ECSP notifies the ASP that the EAS has been instantiated successfully.
###### 6.1.1.1.2.2 EAS termination
1\. The ASP requests the ECSP to terminate one or more EAS(s) with the EAS
identifier(s).
2\. The ECSP terminates the EAS(s) based on the identifier at the EDN.
3\. The ECSP notifies the ASP that the EAS(s) has been terminated
successfully.
## 6.1.2 The deployment of edge enabler server(s)
#### 6.1.2.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the instantiation and termination of one or more
EES(s) on the EDN (see clause 6.5.2.4 in TS 23.558 [2]). It is assumed that
the ECSP and the PLMN operator can be part of the same organization.
##### 6.1.2.1.2 Description
###### 6.1.2.1.2.1 EES Instantiation
1\. The ECSP received a request to instantiate one or more EES(s) with
deployment requirements.
2\. The ECSP selects EDN to host the EES.
3\. The ECSP instantiate the EES(s).
4\. The ECSP sends a notification to indicate that the EES(s) have been
instantiated successfully.
###### 6.1.2.1.2.2 EES termination
1\. The ECSP received a request to terminate one or more EES(s) with the EES
identifier(s).
2\. The ECSP terminates the EES(s), based on the EES identifier(s).
3\. The ECSP sends a notification to indicate that the EES(s) have been
terminated successfully.
## 6.1.3 The deployment of edge configuration server(s)
#### 6.1.3.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the instantiation of one or more ECS in PLMN operator
(see clause 6.5.2.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
##### 6.1.3.1.2 Description
###### 6.1.3.1.2.1 ECS instantiation
1\. The PLMN operator receives a request to instantiate one or more ECS.
2\. The PLMN operator instantiates the ECS.
3\. The PLMN operator sends a notification to indicate that the ECS has been
instantiated successfully.
###### 6.1.3.1.2.2 ECS termination
1\. The PLMN operator receives a request to termination one or more ECS with
the ECS identifier.
2\. The PLMN operator terminates the ECS based on the ECS identifier.
3\. The PLMN operator sends a notification to indicate that the ECS has been
terminated successfully.
Note: The above use case also applies when the ECS is to be deployed by ECSP.
## 6.1.4 The deployment of 5GC NF(s) for supporting Edge Computing
#### 6.1.4.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the PLMN operator to deploy one or more 5GC NF(s)
(e.g., EASDF, UPF...) for supporting Edge Computing (see TS 23.548 [13]).
#### 6.1.4.2 Description
_The deployment of one or more 5GC NF(s) for supporting Edge Computing can
reuse the corresponding definition in TS 28.531._
## 6.2 Specification level use cases and requirements
### 6.2.1 EAS Instantiation
#### 6.2.1.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the ASP to request for instantiation of the EAS(s) in
a particular EDN, or in a set of EDNs, as per the EAS requirements.
#### 6.2.1.2 Description
The lifecycle management of edge components is considered to be a crucial
management aspect. EAS is the application server resident in the Edge Data
Network, performing the server functions. This use case pertains to the case
when the EAS is to be deployed on the operators EDN being managed by the
operator\'s management system. The lifecycle of EAS (instantiation,
termination, scaling, etc) need to be managed. Further, there can be multiple
Edge Data Network (EDN) present/serving a particular edge location. The
implication is that a UE in a particular location can be served by multiple
EDNs. A restriction is that an EAS deployed in a particular EDN (serving the
area represented by LADN) can only be available to UEs when moved in the
serving area of the same EDN. This makes it critical for application service
provider to have their EAS deployed at appropriate EDN(s) to provide high
performance services for the UE. This use case enables deployment of an EAS in
a particular EDN, or in a set of EDNs, as per the EAS requirements.
1\. A consumer request for EAS(s) instantiation providing EAS requirements
including (not limited to) deployment requirements, QoS requirements, service
areas.
2\. The ECSP management system determines in which EDN the EAS(s) will be
deployed, based on the deployment requirements. For example, the selection of
EDN in which the EAS(s) will be instantiated may be determined by the QoS and
service areas requirements.
3\. The ECSP management system interacts with ETSI NFV MANO to perform the
following operations:
\- Instantiate the EAS VNF(s).
\- Connect the EAS(s) to the EES.
\- Connect the EAS(s) to the 5GC network functions.
NOTE: Connecting EAS with 5GC network function will enable information
exchange over appropriate interfaces (e.g., N6, EDGE-7).
4\. The ECSP management system notifies the consumer that the EAS(s) has been
instantiated successfully.
#### 6.2.1.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to instantiate the EAS, as per request from authorized consumers.
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to deploy EAS at a suitable EDN which can support the EAS
requirements e.g., serving location, required latency, affinity/anti-affinity
with other EAS, service continuity**.**
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-3:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of EAS
instantiation**.
### 6.2.2 EAS Termination
#### 6.2.2.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the ASP to request for termination of the EAS(s) in a
particular EDN.
#### 6.2.2.2 Description
1\. A consumer consumes the management service of ECSP management system to
terminate the EAS with the EAS identifier(s).
2\. The ECSP management system terminates the EAS VNF(s) based on the EAS
identifier(s), and disconnects the EAS from the 5GC network functions.
3\. The ECSP management system notifies the consumer that the EAS(s) has been
terminated successfully.
#### 6.2.2.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-4:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to terminate the EAS with the EAS identifier, as per request from
authorized consumers.
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-5:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of EAS
termination**.
### 6.2.3 EES Instantiation
#### 6.2.3.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the instantiation of one or more EES(s) on the EDN
(see clause 6.5.2.4 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.3.2 Description
An operator would like to deploy its EDN as local data network. It starts with
defining the serving location and constituent edge entities (EAS and EES) for
each EDN. The ECSP management system is requested to instantiate the required
entities, as 3GPP network functions, aiming to server the particular location.
The instantiated EES may serve one or multiple EAS.
1\. A consumer request for EES(s) instantiation providing EES deployment
requirements.
2\. The ECSP management system determines the EDN where the EES(s) will be
instantiated.
3\. The ECSP management system performs the following operations to
instantiate the EES:
\- Instantiate the EES VNF(s).
\- Connect the EES(s) to the 5GC network functions.
Note: Connecting EES with 5GC network function will enable information
exchange over appropriate interfaces (e.g., EDGE-2).
4\. The ECSP management system sends a notification to indicate that the
EES(s) have been instantiated successfully.
#### 6.2.3.3 Potential Requirements
**REQ-EAS-DEPLOY-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to instantiate the EES, as per request from authorized consumers.
**REQ-EES-DEPLOY-FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to **send the notification indicating the status of EES
instantiation**.
**REQ-EES-DEPLOY-FUN-3:** 3GPP management producer should have the capability
to relate instantiated EES with one or multiple served EAS(s).
### 6.2.4 EES Termination
#### 6.2.4.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the termination of one or more EES(s) on the EDN (see
clause 6.5.2.4 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.4.2 Description
1\. A consumer consumes the management service of ECSP management system to
terminate the EES with the EES identifier.
2\. The ECSP management system terminates the EES VNF based on the EES
identifier, and disconnects the EES from the 5GC network functions.
3\. The ECSP management system sends a notification to indicate that the EES
has been terminated successfully.
#### 6.2.4.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-EES-DEPLOY-FUN-4** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to terminate the EES with the EES identifier, as per request from
authorized consumers
**REQ-EES-DEPLOY-FUN-5** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to **send the notification indicating the status of EES
termination**.
### 6.2.5 ECS Instantiation
#### 6.2.5.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the instantiation of one or more ECS in PLMN operator
(see clause 6.5.2.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.5.2 Description
To support deployed EDN, PLMN operator will deploy ECS serving one or multiple
EES.
1\. A consumer request for ECS(s) instantiation providing ECS deployment
requirements.
2\. The PLMN management system performs the following operations to
instantiate the ECS:
\- Instantiate the ECS VNF.
\- Connect the ECS to the 5GC network functions.
Note: Connecting ECS with 5GC network function will enable information
exchange over EDGE-8.
3\. The PLMN management system sends a notification to indicate that the ECS
has been instantiated successfully.
#### 6.2.5.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-ECS-DEPLOY-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability to instantiate the ECS, as per request from authorized consumers.
**REQ-ECS-DEPLOY-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of ECS
Instantiation**.
**REQ-ECS-DEPLOY-FUN-3:** The 3GPP management producer system shall have the
capability to relate instantiated ECS with one or multiple served EES(s).
### 6.2.6 ECS Termination
#### 6.2.6.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the termination of one or more ECS in PLMN operator
(see clasue 6.5.2.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.6.2 Description
1\. A consumer consumes the management service of PLMN management system to
terminate the ECS with the ECS identifier.
2\. The PLMN management system terminates the ECS VNF based on the ECS
identifier, and disconnects the ECS from the 5GC network functions.
3\. The PLMN management system sends a notification to indicate that the ECS
has been terminated successfully.
#### 6.2.6.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-ECS-DEPLOY-FUN-4** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability to terminate the ECS with the ECS identifier, as per request from
authorized consumers.
**REQ-ECS-DEPLOY-FUN-5** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of EAS
termination**.
### 6.2.7 EAS profile configuration
#### 6.2.7.1 Goal
In the EAS registration procedure (see clause 8.4.3.2.1 in TS 28.558 [2]), the
EAS sends a registration request with the EAS profile to the EES. Some
information elements in the EAS profile may need to be be configured by OAM.
The goal of this use case is to enable consumers to configure the information
related to EAS profile in EASFunction MOI(s).
#### 6.2.7.2 Pre-condition
\- The EAS VNF instance has been instantiated, and the MOI(s) representing the
EAS VNF instance have been created.
\- The EAS VNF MOI contains the EAS profile information
#### 6.2.7.3 Description
1\. A consumer requests the ECSP management system to configure the EAS
profile attributes.
2\. The ECSP management system configures the attributes in the EASFunction
MOI(s).
3\. The ECSP management system sends an attribute change notification to the
the consumer.
#### 6.2.7.4 Potential requirements
**REQ-EAS-CONFIG-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer to configure the EAS profile
attributes in the EASFunction MOI(s).
**REQ-EAS-CONFIG-FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to send a notification to the authorized consumer, indicating that
the attributes have been changed.
### 6.2.8 Edge Performance Assurance
#### 6.2.8.1 Goal
The goal is to measure the performance of the edge components including EES
and ECS and enable corrective actions in case of performance degradation.
#### 6.2.8.2 Description
Performance assurance of edge components need to be provided by the management
system. EES are considered to be deployed in the operator (e.g., ECSP, PLMN
operator) premises at the edge of the network whereas ECS is considered to be
deployed at a central location serving multiple EES. This use case aims to
provide provisions for performance assurance of EES and ECS.
As part of performance evaluation, various edge related performance
measurements are collected, based on which the performance assurance is
enabled.
#### 6.2.8.4 Potential requirements
**REQ-EDGE-PER-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability to provide EES performance assurance based on various edge related
performance measurements e.g., virtual resource utilization, successful EAS
and EEC registration, successful EES service API consumption, successful EAS
discovery and successful EEC subscription.
**REQ-EDGE-PER-FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer shall have the
capability to provide ECS performance assurance based on various edge related
performance measurements e.g., virtual resource utilization, successful
service provisioning, successful EES registration and successful EEC
subscriptions.
### 6.2.9 EAS performance assurance
#### 6.2.9.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable a consumer, such as ASP, to collect EAS KPI or
measurements that is to meet the edge application KPIs requirement (see clause
5.2.10.2 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.9.2 Description
1\. A consumer requests ECSP management system to collect EAS measurements,
such as available resources (e.g., available compute, available memory,
available storage), and connection bandwidth on the network interfaces (see
clause 8.2.5 in TS 23.558 [2]).
2\. The ECSP management system collects and reports the EAS measurements to
the consumer.
#### 6.2.9.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-EAS-PA-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer to request the collection of EAS
measurements, such as available resources (e.g., available compute, available
memory, available storage), and connection bandwidth on the network
interfaces.
**REQ-EAS-PA-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to **report the EAS measurements to the** authorized **consumer**.
### 6.2.10 Access to 5GC functions
#### 6.2.10.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to request PLMN management
system to provide the connection information of _PCF, NEF, SCEF_ to allow
_EAS, EES, and ECS to access the capabilities of 5GC functions, such as PCF,
NEF, SCEF, (see clause 6.3.2, 6.3.4, 6.4.6 in TS 23.558 [2])._
#### 6.2.10.2 Description
1\. ECSP management system requests PLMN management system to provide the
connection information of 5GC functions, such as the IP addresses of _PCF,
NEF, SCEF_.
2\. PLMN management system returns the connection information of _PCF, NEF,
SCEF_ to ECSP management system.
#### 6.2.10.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-ACC-5GC-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer to query the connection information of
5GC functions, such as _PCF, NEF, SCEF_.
**REQ-ACC-5GC-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to return to the authorized consumer with the connection
information of 5GC functions.
### 6.2.11 UPF selection to support EAS deployment
#### 6.2.11.1 Goal
_EES acting as the AF may send request with information elements listed in
Table 5.6.7-1 in TS 23.501 [4] to_ influence SMF routeing decisions for EAS
traffic. SMF may select an UPF from the available UPF(s) based on criterion
(see clause 6.3.3.3. in TS 23.501 [4]). When a new EAS is deployed, it is
essential that 5GC has an UPF available with sufficient resources as required
in the EAS profile. _The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to request
PLMN management system to select an UPF among the UPF(s) being deployed, or
instantiate a new UPF if nothing available, based on the service area and QoS
requirements.
#### 6.2.11.2 Description
1\. ECSP management system requests PLMN management system to select an UPF,
by providing the UPF selection requirements, including service area
requirements (e.g., Topological Service Area, Geographical Service Area, (see
clause 7.3.3 in TS 28.558 [2])) and list of N6 traffic routing requirements
(see Table 8.2.4.1 in Ts 23.558 [2]).
2\. PLMN management system finds a UPF among the UPF(s) being deployed that
meets the EAS service area and QoS requirements.
3\. PLMN management system deploys a new UPF if no UPF can be found, and then
configure the SMF to add the UPF to the list of available UPF(s) (see clause
6.3.3.2 in TS 23.501 [4]).
4\. PLMN management system provides the information of the UPF selected to the
ECSP management system.
#### 6.2.11.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-UPF-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the capability
allowing authorized consumer to r request to select a UPF for serving the EAS,
based on UPF selection requirements (e.g., service area and QoS requirements).
**REQ-UPF-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the capability
to **provide the** information of the **UPF selected to the authorized
consumer**.
### 6.2.12 EAS performance assurance assisted by 5GC NF performance
measurements
#### 6.2.12.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to collect the measurements of
5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that are related to the EAS performance, where
the measurements can be used to evaluate the EAS performance, and determine
the actions to mitigate the issues if necessary. For example, PLMN management
system has created PM job to receive UPF data volume measurements (see clause
5.4 in TS 28.552 [11]). ECSP management system subscribes to receive the UPF
data volume measurements from the PLMN management system. Then ECSP management
system can correlate the UPF data volume measurements with the EAS
measurements to determine if poor EAS performance is caused by UPF overload.
If so, potential actions should be taken to mitigate the issue.
#### 6.2.12.2 Description
1\. ECSP management system requests PLMN management system to collect the
measurements of the related 5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that may affect the
EAS performance.
2\. The PLMN management system collects and reports the 5GC measurements to
the ECSP management system.
#### 6.2.12.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-5GC-PA-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumers (e.g., ECSP management system) to
request the collection of measurements of the related 5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF,
...) that may affect the EAS performance.
**REQ-5GC-PA-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to **report the 5GC NF measurements to the authorized consumers**
(e.g., ECSP management system).
### 6.2.13 EAS fault supervision assisted by 5GC NF alarms
#### 6.2.13.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable ECSP management system to receive alarms associated
with 5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that can impact the EAS performance. For
example, ECSP management system subscribes to receive from PLMN management
system an alarm of the UPF that transports the edge application data. ECSP
management system determines if such UPF alarm may impact the EAS performance.
If so, action should be taken to mitigate the issue.
#### 6.2.13.2 Description
1\. ECSP management system subscribes to PLMN management system to receive
alarm notifications for 5GC NF(s) that can impact the EAS performance.
2\. PLMN management system detects alarm(s) from a given NF.
3\. PLMN management system sends the NF alarm notification to ECSP management
system.
#### 6.2.13.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-5GC-FS-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer (e.g., ECSP management system) to
subscribe the alarm notifications for associated 5GC NF that may impact the
EAS performance
**REQ-5GC-FS-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to send NF alarm notifications **to the authorized consumer**
(e.g., ECSP management system).
### 6.2.14 EAS configuration with EES address
#### 6.2.14.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable an ECSP consumer to configure the address (e.g., URI)
of the EES that are required as the pre-conditions of Edge Application Server
Registration procedure (see clause 8.4.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
#### 6.2.14.2 Pre-condition
> \- The EAS has been instantiated, and the MOI representing the EAS function
> has been created.
#### 6.2.14.3 Description
1\. A consumer requests the 3GPP management system to configure the address
(e.g., URI) of the EES.
2\. The 3GPP management system configures the attributes in the MOI
representing the EAS function.
3\. The 3GPP management system sends an attribute change notification to the
consumer.
#### 6.2.14.4 Potential requirements
**REQ-EAS-EES-Config-FUN-1** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability allowing authorized consumer to configure the address (e.g., URI)
of the EES.
**REQ-EAS-EES-Config-FUN-2** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to to send a notification to the consumer, indicating that the
attributes have been changed.
### 6.2.15 EASDF Instantiation
#### 6.2.15.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the PLMN operator to instantiate one or more EASDF for
supporting Edge Computing.
#### 6.2.15.2 Description
The 3GPP management system can deploy EASDF as 5GC NF(s).
1\. An authorized consumer requests the 3GPP management system to provide
EASDF(s) instantiation.
2\. The 3GPP management system to perform the following operations:
\- Instantiate the EASDF(s).
\- Connect the EASDF(s) to the other 5GC network functions.
3\. The 3GPP management system notifies the authorized consumer that the
EASDF(s) has been instantiated successfully.
#### 6.2.15.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-EASDF-DEPLOY-FUN-1:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to instantiate the _EASDF(s)_ , as per request from authorized
consumers.
**REQ-EASDF-DEPLOY-FUN-2:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to deploy _EASDF(s)_ which can support the _Edge computing_
requirements e.g., registering to NRF, Handling the DNS messages, transmission
of DNS signaling**.**
**REQ-EASDF-DEPLOY-FUN-3:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of** _EASDF(s)_
**instantiation**.
### 6.2.16 EASDF Termination
#### 6.2.16.1 Goal
_The goal is to enable the PLMN operator to terminate one or more EASDF(s)_
_from 5GC network._
#### 6.2.16.2 Description
1\. An authorized consumer requests the management service of 3GPP management
system to terminate the _EASDF(s)_ with the _EASDF_ identifier(s).
2\. The 3GPP management system terminates the EASDF(s) based on the _EASDF_
identifier(s).
3\. The 3GPP management system notifies the authorized consumer that the
_EASDF(s)_ has been terminated successfully.
#### 6.2.16.3 Potential requirements
**REQ-EASDF-DEPLOY-FUN-4:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability to terminate the _EASDF_ with the _EASDF_ identifier, as per
request from authorized consumers.
**REQ-EASDF-DEPLOY-FUN-5:** 3GPP management service producer should have the
capability **to send the notification indicating the status of** _EASDF_
**termination**.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 EAS lifecycle management using LCM MnS
### 7.1.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use case of the deployment of
edge application server(s) (see clause 6.1.1and 6.2.1). It focuses on the
management services provided by ESCP to support EAS lifecycle management.
One key issue on the EAS LCM is that PLMN operators may not disclose
information related to the mobile networks to the 3^rd^ party operators (e.g.,
ECSP). Without such information, ASP is not able to determine where EAS VNF
should be instantiated to meet the end-to-end QoS requirements required by the
EAS. Therefore, ASP needs send a request to ECSP with attributes, such as the
service area. the geographical service area that the EAS serves (see clause
8.2.4 in [2]), EAS software image, and QoS requirements (e.g., end-to-end
latency, ...), ... etc. ECSP will decide how many EAS instances, and where the
EAS instances should be deployed that can serve the UEs in the service area
while meeting the QoS requirements. Then, ECSP communicates with ETSI NFV MANO
[7] to perform EAS LCM.
### 7.1.2 EAS lifecycle management with LCM MnS
Figure 7.1.2-1 shows that the ASP requests the EAS lifecycle management via
the LCM MnS.
Figure 7.1.2-1: EAS lifecycle management via LCM MnS
#### 7.1.2.1 EAS instantiation
ASP consumes the LCM MnS with operation instantiateEasReq to request the ECSP
management system to instantiate the EAS, with the EAS LCM IE that includes
(but not limited to) the following attributes:
\- Service area: the geographical service area that the EAS serves (see clause
8.2.4 in [2]).
\- EAS VNF IE: The information needed to instantiate the EAS VNF.
\- Software image information (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Software image location: the file location where the software image can be
downloaded.
\- Minimum RAM: The minimal RAM requirement for the software image
\- Minimum disk: The minimal disk requirement for the software image
\- Virtual compute resources:
\- Virtual CPU (see clause 7.1.9.2.3 in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Virtual memory (see clause 7.1.9.3.2 in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Virtual disk (see clause 7.1.9.4.3 in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- QoS requirements: e.g., bandwidth, latency of the end-to-end connection.
ECSP management system sends an instantiateEasResp to notify ASP that the EAS
instantiation is in progress.
ECSP management system determines to instantiate an EAS instances, based on
the EAS LCM IE (e.g., service area).
ECSP management system downloads the EAS VNF software image from the software
image location, and requests NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface [6] to
instantiate EAS VNF instance.
ECSP management system sends instantiateEasResp to notify ASP that EAS VNF
instance has been instantiated.
The ECSP management system creates the following MOIs:
\- _EAS VNF_ MOIs contain the following, but not limited to, attributes:
\- EAS LCM ID: indicates the EAS LCM IE associated with the EAS instances.
\- EAS VNF instance ID: the identifier of EAS VNF instance.
\- EAS profile information elements (see clause 8.2.4 in [2]).
ECSP management system sends notifyMOICreation to notify the consumer (ECSP)
that _EAS VNF_ MOIs have been created.
NOTE: It is assumed that ASP and ECSP consumers have subscribed to receive
notifications from ECSP management system.
#### 7.1.2.2 EAS termination
ASP consumes the LCM MnS with operation terminateEasReq to ECSP management
system to terminate the EAS including (but not limited to) the following
attributes:
> \- EAS instance identifiers: the identifier of EAS VNF instance(s) to be
> terminated.
ECSP management system sends a terminateEasResp to notify ASP that the EAS
termination is in progress.
ECSP management system performs the following operations to terminate EAS
instances:
\- requests NFVO to terminate the VNF instances identified by the EAS instance
ID.
\- sends a terminateEasResp to notify ASP that the requested EAS instances
have been terminated.
\- deletes the _EAS VNF_ MOIs.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the consumer (ECSP) that _EAS VNF_ MOIs
have been deleted.
NOTE: It is assumed that ASP and ECSP consumers have subscribed to receive
notifications from ECSP management system.
## 7.2 EAS lifecycle management using provisioning MnS
### 7.2.1 General
Figure 7.2.1-1 shows that the ASP requests the EAS instantiation via the
provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.2.1-1: EAS lifecycle management via provisioning MnS
To support EAS deployment via provisioning MnS, the following IOCs could be
defined:
_-_ EASLcm IOC that contains the requirement for EAS deployment:
\- EASLcm IOC ID: the identifier of the EASLcm IOC.
\- Service area: the geographical service area that the EAS serves (see clause
8.2.4 in [2]), for example geolocation (longitude, latitude); access network
defined (e.g., Cell IDs, Tracking Areas); network defined (e.g., a specific
EDN(s)), civic address.
\- EAS VNF information: The information needed to instantiate the EAS VNF.
\- Software image information including location, minimum RAM and disk
requirements for the software image. (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV
IFA-011 [6])
\- Virtual compute resources including virtual CPU, virtual memory and virtual
disk
\- QoS requirements: e.g., bandwidth.
\- Affinity/Anti-affinity: The affinity and ant-affinity requirements for the
EAS with other existing EAS on the target EDN.
\- EASFunction IOC that contains the following, but not limited to,
attributes:
\- EASFunction IOC ID: the identifier of EAS VNF instance.
\- Reference of associated EASLcm IOC ID: the identifier of EASLcm IOC.
\- EAS profile information elements (see clause 8.2.4 in [2]).
### 7.2.2 EAS instantiation
The following procedures creates/instantiate EAS including selecting
appropriate EDN to be used. The procedure is used by ASP (Application Service
Provider, see TS 23.558 [2]) to host their application on an available EDN.
Figure 7.2.2-1: EAS instantiation via provisioning MnS
Note: The Provisioning MnS is exposed by the management system of entity
responsible for EAS lifecycle management e.g ECSP management system.
1) ASP consumes the provisioning MnS and invoke operation createMOI for EASLcm
IOC to request the provisioning MnS Producer to instantiate the EAS.
2) Provisioning MnS Producer selects the appropriate EDN (or set of EDNs)
based on the EAS requirements provided in the request. The EDN can be selected
either by considering the individual requirement or by grouping the multiple
requirements as single selection criteria. When the grouping is used all the
requirement specified as part of a group should be satisfied. Following are
examples of various grouped selection criteria:
\- Latency and Cost can be combined as one selection criteria influencing the
selection as in what latency can be assured in what cost.
\- Geo-location and Latency can be combined as one selection criteria
influencing the selection as in at what location the requested latency can be
provided depending on the target geographical area.
\- Affinity/Anti-affinity and Cost can be combined as one selection criteria
influencing the selection as in what cost will be incurred to satisfy
Affinity/Anti-affinity with a particular existing Edge Application.
3) Provisioning MnS Producer selects the appropriate EES if available in the
selected EDN based on the information provided in the request.
4) ECSP Management System derives the requirements for VNF instance based on
the EAS requirements.
5) ECSP Management System requests NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface to
instantiate EAS VNF instances.
6) Provisioning MnS Producer creates the MOI for EASFunction IOC.
7) Provisioning MnS Producer sends notifyMOICreation to notify ASP about the
newly created MOIs for EASLcm IOC and EASFunction IOC.
8) Provisioning MnS Producer sends notifyMOICreation to notify the consumer
(ECSP) that MOIs for EASLcm IOC and EASFunction IOC have been created.
NOTE: It is assumed that ASP and ECSP consumer have subscribed to receive
notification from ECSP management system.
### 7.2.3 EAS termination
ASP consumes the provisioning MnS with operation deleteMOI to request the
Provisioning MnS Producer to terminate the EAS instance(s), including (but not
limited to) the following attributes:
\- EAS VNF instance ID: the identifier of MOIs for EASFunction IOC indicating
the EAS VNF instance(s) to be terminated.
ECSP management system will perform the following:
\- requests NFVO to terminate the VNF instances based on the EAS VNF instance
ID.
\- deletes MOIs for EASFunction IOC.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the ASP that MOI for EASFunction IOC has
been deleted.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the consumer (ECSP) that MOI for
EASFunction IOC has been deleted.
NOTE: It is assumed that ASP and ECSP consumer have subscribed to receive
notification from ECSP management system.
## 7.3 EES deployment using LCM MnS
### 7.3.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use cases of the EES deployment
(see clause 6.2). It consists of 2 solutions based on LCM MnS and provisioning
MnS, respectively.
### 7.3.2 EES lifecycle management using LCM MnS
Figure 7.3.2.1-1 shows that the ECSP consumer requests the ECSP management
system to perform EES lifecycle management via the LCM MnS.
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: EES lifecycle management using LCM MnS
#### 7.3.2.1 EES instantiation
ECSP consumer consumes the LCM MnS with operation instantiateEesReq to request
the ECSP management system to instantiate the EES, with the EES LCM IE that
includes (but not limited to) the following attributes:
\- EES profile: includes (but not limited to) information about the EES (see
clause 8.2.6 in [2]).
\- EES Topological Service Area: The list of Cell IDs (or TAIs) serviced by
this EES.
\- EES Geographical Service Area: The area being served by the EES in
Geographical values.
\- EES VNF IE: The information needed to instantiate the EES VNF.
\- Software image information (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Software image location: the file location where the software image can be
downloaded.
\- Minimum RAM: The minimal RAM requirement for the software image
\- Minimum disk: The minimal disk requirement for the software image
\- Virtual compute resources:
\- Virtual CPU
\- Virtual memory
\- Virtual disk
ECSP management system sends an instantiateEesResp to notify the consumer that
the EES instantiation is in progress.
ECSP management system downloads the EES VNF software image from the software
image location, and requests NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface [6] to
instantiate EES VNF instance.
ECSP management system sends instantiateEesResp to notify the consumer that
EES VNF instance has been instantiated.
The ECSP management system creates the following MOIs:
\- _EES VNF_ MOI contain the following, but not limited to, attributes:
\- EES LCM ID: indicates the EES LCM IE associated with the EES instances.
\- EES profile information elements (see clause 8.2.6 in [2]).
ECSP management system sends notifyMOICreation to notify the consumer that
_EES VNF_ MOIs have been created.
#### 7.3.2.2 EES termination
ECSP consumer consumes the LCM MnS with operation terminateEesReq to request
the ECSP management system to terminate the EES including (but not limited to)
the following attributes:
\- EES instance identifiers: the identifier of EES VNF instance(s) to be
terminated.
ECSP management system sends a terminateEesResp to notify the consumer that
the EES termination is in progress.
ECSP management system performs the following operations to terminate EES
instances:
\- requests NFVO to terminate the VNF instances identified by the EES instance
ID.
\- sends a terminateEesResp to notify the consumer that the requested EES
instances have been terminated.
\- deletes the _EES VNF_ MOI.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the consumer that _EES VNF_ MOI have been
deleted.
## 7.4 EES lifecycle management using provisioning MnS
### 7.4.1 General
Figure 7.4.2.1-1 shows that the ECSP consumer requests the ECSP management
system to perform EES lifecycle management via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.4.1-1: EES lifecycle management using provisioning MnS
This solution is to support the EES instantiation use case in 6.2.3. To
support EES deployment via provisioning MnS, the EESFunction IOCs should be
defined with the following properties, which may be influenced by clause 8.2.6
of TS 23.588:
\- Service Location: This parameter defines the serving location for the EES.
In can be modelled as Geographical Service Area or Topological Service Area as
defind in [2].
\- EESFunction IOC ID: the identifier of EES VNF instance.
\- End Point: Endpoint information (e.g., URI, FQDN, IP address) used to
communicate with the EES. This information is provided to the EEC to connect
to the EES.
\- Service Continuity Support: This parameter defines whether the EES supports
service continuity.
\- Serving EAS(s): Defining the EAS(s) which this EES is serving.
\- EESLCM Info: The information needed to instantiate the EES VNF.
\- Software image information (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6]).
\- Software image location including location, minimum RAM and disk
requirements for the software image. (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV
IFA-011 [6]).
\- Virtual compute resources including virtual CPU, virtual memory, and
virtual disk.
### 7.4.2 EES instantiation
The following procedures creates/instantiate EES on a particular EDN.
Figure 7.4.2-1: EES lifecycle management via provisioning MnS
1\. Provisioning MnS Producer receives a request (this will use createMOI
operation defined in TS 28.532) with EES related requirements. The following
are the list of requirements, which can be provided with the request as part
of attributeListIn parameter of createMOI operation.
a. EDNidentifier: Identifying the host EDN to instantiate the EES on.
b. EASIdentifiers: Identifying the list of EAS registered with the EES.
2\. The NF instance creation procedure as described in 7.10 of [5] is reused
to instantiate the EES VNF instance with the requirements captured in the
EESFunction IOC. The request is to create the MOI for EESFunction IOC.
3\. The producer creates the MOI (Managed Object Instance) for EESFunction
class. The MOI shall contain attributes as defined in EESFunction IOC.
4\. The producer configures the new created MOI with corresponding
configuration information.
5\. The producer sends the CreateEES response (this will use createMOI
operation defined in TS 28.532) to the consumer with identifier of MOI.
### 7.4.3 EES termination
ECSP consumes the provisioning MnS with operation deleteMOI to request the
Provisioning MnS Producer to terminate the EE instance(s), including (but not
limited to) the following attributes:
\- EES VNF instance ID: the identifier of MOIs for EESFunction IOC indicating
the EES VNF instance(s) to be terminated.
Provisioning MnS Producer will perform the following:
\- requests NFVO to terminate the VNF instances based on the EES VNF instance
ID.
\- deletes MOIs for EESFunction IOC.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the consumer that MOI for EESFunction IOC
has been deleted.
## 7.5 ECS deployment using LCM MnS
### 7.5.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use cases of the ECS deployment
(see clause 6.2). It consists of 2 solutions based on LCM MnS and provisioning
MnS, respectively.
### 7.5.2 ECS lifecycle management using LCM MnS
#### 7.5.2.0 General
Figure 7.5.2.1-1 shows that the ECSP consumer requests the ECSP management
system to perform ECS lifecycle management via the LCM MnS.
Figure 7.5.2.1-1: ECS lifecycle management using LCM MnS
#### 7.5.2.1 ECS instantiation
ECSP consumer consumes the LCM MnS with operation instantiateEcsReq to request
the ECSP management system to instantiate the ECS, with the ECS LCM IE that
includes (but not limited to) the following attributes:
\- ECS VNF IE: The information needed to instantiate the ECS VNF.
\- Software image information (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Software image location: the file location where the software image can be
downloaded.
\- Minimum RAM: The minimal RAM requirement for the software image
\- Minimum disk: The minimal disk requirement for the software image
\- Virtual compute resources:
\- Virtual CPU
\- Virtual memory
\- Virtual disk
ECSP management system sends an instantiateEcsResp to notify the consumer that
the ECS instantiation is in progress.
ECSP management system downloads the ECS VNF software image from the software
image location, and requests NFVO via the Os-Ma-nfvo interface [6] to perform
the following operations:
> \- Instantiate ECS VNF instance.
ECSP management system sends instantiateEcsResp to notify the consumer that
ECS VNF instance has been instantiated.
The ECSP management system creates the following MOIs:
\- _ECS VNF_ MOI contain the following, but not limited to, attributes:
\- ECS LCM ID: indicates the ECS LCM IE associated with the ECS instances.
\- ECS profile information elements (see clause 8.2.4 in [2]).
ECSP management system sends notifyMOICreation to notify the consumer that
_ECS VNF_ MOIs have been created.
#### 7.5.2.2 ECS termination
ECSP consumer consumes the LCM MnS with operation terminateEcsReq to request
the ECSP management system to terminate the ECS including (but not limited to)
the following attributes:
\- ECS instance identifiers: the identifier of ECS VNF instance(s) to be
terminated.
ECSP management system sends a terminateEcsResp to notify the consumer that
the ECS termination is in progress.
ECSP management system performs the following operations to terminate ECS
instances.
\- requests NFVO to terminate the VNF instances identified by the ECS instance
ID.
\- sends a terminateEcsResp to notify the consumer that the requested ECS
instances have been terminated.
\- deletes the _ECS VNF_ MOI.
\- sends notifyMOIDeletion to notify the consumer that _ECS VNF_ MOI have been
deleted.
## 7.6 ECS lifecycle management
### 7.6.1 General
Figure 7.6.1-1 shows that the PLMN operator or ECSP as the consumer requests
the ECS lifecycle management via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.6.1-1: ECS lifecycle management via provisioning MnS
This solution is to support the ECS instantiation and termination use case in
6.2.5 and 6.2.6. To support ECS deployment via provisioning MnS, the
ECSFunction IOCs should be defined with the following attributes:
\- ECSFunction IOC ID: the identifier of ECS VNF instance.
\- End Point: The endpoint address (e.g., URI, IP address) of the ECS.
NOTE: End Point could also be defined as a separate IOC with relationship with
ECSFunction IOC.
\- Serving EES: Information about EES(s) known to ECS including EES end point
NOTE: Serving EES could also be defined as a separate IOC with relationship
with ECSFunction IOC.
\- EDN connection information: Information regarding EDN connection including
DNN/APN, EES, S-NSSAI etc.
NOTE: This information can be provided after ECS instantiation.
\- ECS VNF information: The information needed to instantiate the ECS VNF.
\- Software image information (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV IFA-011 [6])
\- Software image location including location, minimum RAM and disk
requirements for the software image. (see clause 7.1.6.5 in in ETSI NFV
IFA-011 [6])
\- Virtual compute resources including virtual CPU, virtual memory and virtual
disk
### 7.6.2 ECS instantiation
The NF instance creation procedure as described in 7.10 of [5] is reused to
instantiate the ECS VNF instance with the requirements captured in the
ECSFunction IOC. The request is to create the MOI for ECSFunction IOC.
### 7.6.3 ECS termination
The NF instance deletion procedure as described in 7.12 of [5] is reused to
terminate a ECS VNF instance by providing the identifier of ECSFunction
indicating the ECS VNF instance to be terminated.
## 7.7 Information to enable access to 5GC functions
### 7.7.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use case of access to 5GC
functions (see clause 6.2.10).
### 7.7.2 Solution
Figure 7.7.2-1 shows that ECSP management system requests PLMN management
system to provide the connection information of _PCF, NEF, SCEF_ via the
provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.7.2-1: Query the IP address of 5GC function via the provisioning MnS
A new 5GCAccessInfo IOC or the existing End point IOC (e.g., EP_Rx) can be
used to enable the access of 5GC function, if a new 5GCAccessInfo IOC is used,
it should contain the following attributes:
\- List of PCF connection information: This attribute contains the connection
information of PCF, including PCF identifier, and PCF endpoint (e.g., IP
address, DN, ...).
\- List of NEF connection information: This attribute contains the connection
information of NEF, including NEF identifier, and NEF endpoint (e.g., IP
address, DN, ...).
\- List of SCEF connection information: This attribute contains the connection
information of SCEF, including SCEF identifier, and SCEF endpoint (e.g., IP
address, DN, ...).
ECSP management system consumes the provisioning MnS with operation
_getMOIAttributes_ to get the connection information of 5GC function(s) (e.g.,
PCF, NEF, SCEF) in 5GCAccessInfo IOC.
PLMN management system returns the output parameters with connection
information 5GC function(s).
## 7.8 Edge Performance Assurance
### 7.8.1 Overview
The performance assurance of EES and ECS can be done utilizing the existing
performance assurance procedures defined in TS 28.550 [8] and 28.532. The
following shows the high-level procedure utilizing the same for EES and ECS
performance assurance.
{width="5.495833333333334in" height="4.414583333333334in"}
Figure 7.8.1-1: EES and ECS performance assurance
1\. The consumer, acting as Measurement Job Control MnS consumer, creates a
measurement job to collect proposed performance measurements using
createMeasurementJob as defined in TS 28.550 [8].
2\. The producer, acting as Measurement job control MnS producer, collects
proposed performance measurements from EES and ECS.
3\. If the reportingMethod in createMeasurementJob was data file, the consumer
takes the role of Data File reporting MnS Consumer and subscribe for
notifyFileready notification as defined in TS 28.550 [8] and TS 28.532.
a. The producer, acting as Data File reporting MnS Producer send the
notifyfileReady notification when the file containing required performance
measurements is ready as defined in TS 28.550 [8] and TS 28.532.
4\. If the reportingMethod in createMeasurementJob was data streaming, the
consumer takes the role of Data Streaming MnS Consumer and establish stream
connection using establishStreamingConnection operation as defined in TS
28.550 [8] and TS 28.532.
a. The producer, acting as Data Streaming MnS Producer send the required
measurement stream using reportStreamData operation as defined in TS 28.550
[8].
5\. Depending on the performance measurement received, the appropriate
measures can be taken by the consumer to mitigate the performance degradation,
if any.
Note: The performance measurements may be used by SON or MDAS to determine
actions to mitigate the performance degradation.
### 7.8.2 Example of Required Performance Measurements
\- EES
a. Virtual resource usage (MeanProcessor, MeanMemory and MeanDisk).
b. Mean EEC Registration
c. Mean EEC Subscription.
d. Mean EAS Registration.
e. Mean EAS Discovery.
f. Mean UE Location Reporting API attempts.
g. Mean UP path management API subscription.
h. Mean UE Identifier API attempts.
i. Mean Client Information subscription.
\- ECS
a. Virtual resource usage (MeanProcessor, MeanMemory and MeanDisk).
b. Mean EES Registration.
c. Mean EES Subscription.
d. Mean Service Provisioning attempts.
## 7.9 EAS performance assurance
### 7.9.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for the use case of the EAS
performance assurance (see clause 6.2.9). It collects the EAS KPI or
performance measurements that are defined in Table 7.x.1-1 (see clause 8.2.5
in TS 23.558 [2]).
Table 7.9.1-1: Edge Application Server Service KPIs
* * *
Information element Status Description Maximum Request rate O Maximum request
rate from the Application Client supported by the server. Maximum Response
time O The maximum response time advertised for the Application Client\'s
service requests. Availability O Advertised percentage of time the server is
available for the Application Client\'s use. Available Compute O The maximum
compute resource available for the Application Client. Available Graphical
Compute O The maximum graphical compute resource available for the Application
Client. Available Memory O The maximum memory resource available for the
Application Client. Available Storage O The maximum storage resource available
for the Application Client. Connection Bandwidth O The connection bandwidth in
Kbit/s advertised for the Application Client\'s use. NOTE: The maximum
response time includes the round-trip time of the request and response packet,
the processing time at the server and the time required by the server to
consume 3GPP Core Network capabilities, if any.
* * *
Note: The Information elements defined in the table (7.9.1-1) need to be
defined as EAS performance measurements.
Figure 7.9.1-1 shows that the performance assurance MnS is used by consumer,
such as ASP to collect the EAS measurements from ECSP management system.
Figure 7.9.1-1: EAS measurements collection via performance assurance MnS
### 7.9.2 Measurements collection via performance job control
ASP consumes the measurement job control MnS with createMeasurementJob
operation (see TS 28.550 [8]) to request ECSP management system to collect EAS
measurements, such as available resources (e.g., available compute, available
memory, available storage), and the connection bandwidth on the network
interfaces (see clause 8.2.5 in TS 23.558 [2]).
The createMeasurementJob operation indicates whether the EAS measurement data
will be sent via data file reporting service or data streaming service (see
clause 7 in TS 28.550 [8]).
The ASP as the consumer of performance data file reporting MnS executes the
following steps to receive the measurement data via the data file reporting
service:
\- ASP invokes the subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [9]) to subscribe to
receive notifications from the ECSP management system.
\- ASP receives a notification from MnS producer indicating the performance
data file is ready.
\- ASP fetches the measurement data from the MnS producer.
The ECSP management system as the producer of performance data streaming MnS
executes the following steps to send the measurements to ASP via the data
streaming service (see Annex D in TS 28.550 [8]):
\- The MnS producer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
establish a streaming connection with ASP for sending the streaming data.
\- The MnS producer collects the measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation to send the streaming data to ASP.
### 7.9.3 Measurements collection via configurable measurement control
ASP consumes the provisioning MnS with createMOI operation to create a
PerfMetricJob MOI to request ECSP management system to collect EAS
measurements, such as available resources (e.g., available compute, available
memory, available storage), and connection bandwidth on the network interfaces
(see Annex D in TS 28.550 [8]).
The PerfMetricJob IOC indicates whether the EAS measurement data will be sent
via data file reporting service or data streaming service (See clause 4.3.31
in TS 28.622 [10]).
The ASP as the consumer of performance data file reporting MnS executes the
following steps to receive the measurement data via the data file reporting
service:
\- ASP invokes the subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [9]) to subscribe to
receive notifications from the ECSP management system.
\- ASP receives a notification from MnS producer indicating the performance
data file is ready.
\- ASP fetches the measurement data from the MnS producer.
The ECSP management system as the producer of performance data streaming MnS
executes the following steps to send the measurements to ASP via the data
streaming service (see Annex D in TS 28.550 [8]):
\- The MnS producer invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to
establish a streaming connection with ASP for sending the streaming data.
\- The MnS producer collects the measurement data and invokes the
reportStreamData operation to send the streaming data to ASP.
## 7.10 UPF selection to assist EAS deployment
### 7.10.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use case of UPF selection to
support EAS deployment (see clause 6.2.11). It is assumed that the EAS has
been deployed based on the solution described in clause 7.1.
This solution applies to the scenario where PLMN operator had deployed UPF(s)
in 5GC, and ECSP management system needs to request PLMN management system to
select a UPF in 5GC to serve the EAS.
### 7.10.2 Solution #1 -- UPF selection using LCM MnS
Figure 7.10.2-1 shows that ECSP management system requests PLMN management
system to identify a UPF via the LCM MnS.
Figure 7.10.2-1: UPF selection via the LCM MnS
ECSP management system consumes the LCM MnS with operation selectUpfReq to
request the PLMN management system to select a UPF, with the following
attributes:
\- EAS Topological Service Area: A Topological Service Area is defined in
relationship with a UE\'s point of connection to the network, such as: a
collection of Cell IDs, Tracking Area Identities or the PLMN ID (see clause
7.3.3.2 in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- EAS Geographical Service Area: A Geographical Service Area is an area that
is specified by geographical units such as: Geographical coordinates ID (see
clause 7.3.3.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- List of N6 traffic routing requirements: The N6 traffic routing information
and/or routing profile ID corresponding to each EAS DNAI.
PLMN management system sends a selectUpfResp to notify the consumer that the
request is in progress.
PLMN management system finds a UPF among the UPF(s) being deployed, based on
the EAS Topological Service Area, EAS Geographical Service Area (see clause
7.3.3 in TS 28.558 [2]), and QoS requirements, and may perform the following
operations if no UPF can be found:
\- Instantiate a new UPF.
\- Configure the SMF -- SMFFunction IOC to add the UPF to the available UPF
list (see clause 6.3.3.2 in TS 23.501 [4]).
PLMN management system sends the selectUpfResp to notify ECSP management
system with the UPF information for the UPF being selected.
### 7.10.3 Solution #2 -- UPF selection using provisioning MnS
Figure 7.10.3-1 shows that ECSP management system requests PLMN management
system to identify a UPF via the provisioning MnS.
Figure 7.10.3-1: UPF selection via the provisioning MnS
ECSP management system needs to send the UPF selection requirements in an IOC.
So, the upfSelection IOC should be defined to support the UPF selection
solution. The upfSelection IOC should contain, but not limited to, the
following attributes:
\- EAS Topological Service Area: A Topological Service Area is defined in
relationship with a UE\'s point of connection to the network, such as: a
collection of Cell IDs, Tracking Area Identities or the PLMN ID (see clause
7.3.3.2 in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- EAS Geographical Service Area: A Geographical Service Area is an area that
is specified by geographical units such as: Geographical coordinates ID (see
clause 7.3.3.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- List of N6 traffic routing requirements: The N6 traffic routing information
and/or routing profile ID corresponding to each EAS DNAI (see table 8.2.4.1 in
TS 23.558 [2]).
ECSP management system consumes the provisioning MnS with operation
_createMOI_ for upfSelection IOC with EAS Topological Service Area, EAS
Geographical Service Area, list of N6 traffic routing requirements, EAS
connection information, to request PLMN management system to select a UPF
information.
PLMN management system finds a UPF among the UPF(s) being deployed, based on
the service area requirements (e.g., Topological Service Area, Geographical
Service Area, (see clause 7.3.3 in TS 28.558 [2])) and QoS requirements,
contained in the upfSelection IOC, and may perform the following operations if
no UPF can be found:
\- Instantiate a new UPF.
\- Configure the SMF -- SMFFunction IOC to add the UPF to the available UPF
list (see clause 6.3.3.2 in TS 23.501 [4]).
PLMN management system creates the upfSelection MOI, and sends
_notifyMOICreation_ with attributeList, including the UPF information.
PLMN management system returns the output parameters with the UPF information.
## 7.11 EAS performance assurance assisted by 5GC NF performance measurements
### 7.11.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for the use case of the 5GC NF
performance assurance (see clause 6.2.12). Figure 7.11.1-1 shows that ECSP
management system utilizes the performance assurance MnS to collect the 5GC NF
measurements from PLMN management system.
Figure 7.11.1-1: 5GC NF measurements collection via performance assurance MnS
### 7.11.2 Measurements collection via performance job control
ECSP management system consumes the measurement job control MnS with
createMeasurementJob operation (see TS 28.550 [8]) to request PLMN management
system to collect the measurements of 5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that are
related to the EAS performance. The createMeasurementJob operation indicates
whether the 5GC NF measurement data will be sent via data file reporting
service or data streaming service (see clause 7 in TS 28.550 [8]).
#### 7.11.2.1 Measurement data sent via data file reporting service
ECSP management system as the consumer of performance data file reporting MnS
executes the following steps to receive the measurement data via the data file
reporting service:
\- Invokes the subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [9]) to subscribe to receive
notifications from the PLMNmanagement system for the measurements related to
the EAS performance.
\- Receives a notification from MnS producer indicating the performance data
file is ready.
\- Fetches the measurement data from the MnS producer.
#### 7.11.2.2 Measurement data sent via data streaming service
PLMN management system as the producer of performance data streaming MnS
executes the following steps to send the measurements to ECSP management
system via the data streaming service (see Annex D in TS 28.550 [8]):
\- Invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to establish a streaming
connection with ECSP management system for sending the streaming data.
\- Collects the measurement data and invokes the reportStreamData operation to
send the streaming data to ECSP management system.
### 7.11.3 Measurements collection via configurable measurement control
ECSP management system consumes the provisioning MnS with createMOI operation
to create a PerfMetricJob MOI to request ECSP management system to collect the
measurements of 5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that are related to the EAS
performance. The PerfMetricJob IOC indicates whether the EAS measurement data
will be sent via data file reporting service or data streaming service (See
clause 4.3.31 in TS 28.622 [10]).
#### 7.11.3.1 Measurement data sent via data file reporting service
ECSP management system as the consumer of performance data file reporting MnS
executes the following steps to receive the measurement data via the data file
reporting service:
\- Invokes the subscribe operation (see TS 28.532 [9]) to subscribe to receive
notifications from the ECSP management system.
\- Receives a notification from MnS producer indicating the performance data
file is ready.
\- Fetches the measurement data from the MnS producer.
#### 7.11.3.2 Measurement data sent via data streaming service
PLMN management system as the producer of performance data streaming MnS
executes the following steps to send the measurements to ASP via the data
streaming service (see Annex D in TS 28.550 [8]):
\- Invokes the establishStreamingConnection operation to establish a streaming
connection with ECSP management system for sending the streaming data.
\- Collects the measurement data and invokes the reportStreamData operation to
send the streaming data to ECSP management system.
NOTE: How a consumer receives a subset of measurements for a NF is out of
scope of this document.
## 7.12 EAS fault supervision assisted by 5GC NF alarms
### 7.12.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for the use case of the 5GC NF fault
supervision (see clause 6.2.13). Figure 7.12.1-1 shows that ECSP management
system utilizes the fault supervision MnS to receive alarms associated with
5GC NFs (e.g., UPF, PCF, ...) that may impact the EAS performance from PLMN
management system.
Figure 7.12.1-1: Receive 5GC NF alarms via fault supervision MnS
### 7.12.2 Solution for 5GC NF alarms
ECSP management system consumes the FS Data Report for NF MnS with the
subscribe operation to subscribe to PLMN management system to receive alarm
notifications for a 5GC NF (e.g., UPG, PCF) that may impact the EAS
performance (see clause 6.3 in TS 28.545 [12]).
PLMN management system sends a notifyNewAlarm notification to ECSP management
system indicating that the alarm(s) for a 5GC NF have been detected by NF FS
MnS producer.
## 7.13 EAS configuration with EES address
### 7.13.1 General
This clause provides potential solutions for use cases of the EAS
configuration with the EES address (see clause 6.2.14).
### 7.13.2 Solution
Figure 7.x.2.1-1 shows that the ECSP consumer requests the ECSP management
system to configure the EES address at the EASFunction IOC. It is assumed that
the EASFunction MOI has been created.
Figure 7.13.2.1-1: EAS configuration using provisioning MnS
To support this solution, the EASFunction IOCs should contain the following
attributes:
\- eesAddress: the address of EAS (e.g., URI, IP address)
A consumer consumes the provisioning MnS with operation _modifyMOIAttributes_
to request ECSP management system to configure the eesAddress attribute(s) in
EASFunction or EP MOI.
ECSP management system sends notifyMOIAttributeValueChange to notify the
consumer that the eesAddress attribute(s) in EASFunction or EP MOI have been
modified.
## 7.14 EASDF lifecycle management using provisioning MnS
### 7.14.1 General
To support EASDF deployment via provisioning MnS, the following IOC should be
defined:
\- EASDFFunction IOC that contains the following, but not limited to,
attributes:
\- EASDFFunction IOC ID: Naming attribute inherited from ManagedFunction.
\- EASDF Traffic function ID: the unique identity of EASDF Instance.
\- EASDF profile information elements: for EASDF Discovery and Selection (see
TS.23.548 [13]), the detail content of nfprofile is defined in TS 29.510.
### 7.14.2 EASDF instantiation
The procedure of NF instance creation (see clause 7.10 in TS28.531 [5]) can be
reused for EASDF instantiation.
### 7.14.3 EASDF termination
The procedure of NF instance deletion (see clause 7.12 in TS28.531 [5]) can be
reused for EASDF termination.
# 8 Evaluation of potential solutions
## 8.1 General
This clause evaluates the solutions, based on LCM MnS and provisioning MnS,
which are used to support the deployment of EAS, EES, ECS, and UPF NFs.
## 8.2 Synchronous vs. asynchronous solutions
Figure 8.1-1 shows the flow diagrams for the deployment of EAS, EES, and ECS
based on LCM MnS (see clause 7.1, 7.3, and 7.5) that are based on the
asynchronous solution, where a consumer may not receive the result of
operation immediately, since interaction with ETSI NFV MANO is needed for NF
instantiation. For example, when a consumer invokes the instantiateNfReq
operation, ECSP management system returns instantiateNfReq to indicate the
operation is in progress, and then sends notifyNfInstantiation to the consumer
to report the result of the operation.
Figure 8.2-1: Deployment of EAS, EES, ECS using LCM MnS
Figure 8.1-2 shows the flow diagrams for the deployment of EAS, EES, and ECS
based on provisioning MnS (see clause 7.2, 7.4, and 7.6) that are based on the
synchronous solution, where a consumer receives the result of operation in the
output parameters. For example, a consumer invokes the createMOI operation to
request ECSP management system to instantiate the NF by creating a MOI. Since
the instantiation operation involves ETSI NFV MANO that may take time, the
consumer will need to wait for the output with _status_ attribute (i.e.
OperationSucceeded, OperationFailed) to indicate the result of instantiation
(see clause 11.1.1.1.3 in TS 28.532 [9]). ECSP management system may send
notifyMOICreation (see clause 11.1.1.7 in TS 28.532 [9]) to notify the
subscribed consumers that a new MOI has been created. However, the
notification does not report the result of the operation.
Figure 8.2-2: Deployment of EAS, EES, ECS using provisioning MnS
## 8.3 Evaluation
LCM MnS:
\- Pro: This solution can be tailored to meet the requirements of the edge
computing deployments, and possibly other new applications.
\- Con: This is a new MnS that requires effort.
Provisioning MnS:
\- Pro: Reusing the existing solution that can be tailored to meet the
requirements of the edge computing deployments.
\- Con: extensions in the provisioning MnS are needed to support the
synchronous response nto indicate the progress, success, or failure of NF
instantiation.
## 8.4 Way forward
This clause includes the way forward from the evaluation of potential
solutions:
\- Extensions in the provisioning MnS are needed to support the asynchronous
mode of operations.
\- The solutions to support asynchronous responses may include the following
options with consideration of backward compatibility:
\- The enhancements of existing operations and notifications.
\- Define new operations to support asynchronous responses.
NOTE: The solution is to be decided in the normative phase.
# 9 Conclusions and recommendations
## 9.1 Conclusions
### 9.1.0 General
The present document identified the use cases and derived the requirements for
the deployment and performance assurance of EAS/EES/ECS, EAS profile
configuration, UPF instantiation to assist EAS deployment, access to 5GC
functions, and 5GC NF performance measurements and alarms to support EAS
performance assurance / fault supervision.
The study also investigated the multiple management systems scenarios where
PLMN management system and ECSP management system were introduced to support
multi-operators of ASP, ECSP and the PLMN operator, as described in TS 23.558
[2].
The study developed the potential solutions for supporting the requirements
using LCM MnS and provisioning MnS for the deployment of EAS, EES, and ECS NFs
among multiple management systems, and evaluated the solutions.
### 9.1.1 Edge Lifecycle Management
The lifecycle management of EAS, EES and ECS can be done as it is done for any
other Managed Function. Generic provisioning management service will be used
for the same. The related NRMs need to be defined.
Alternatively, the lifecycle management of EAS, EES and ECS can be done using
an edge specific management service i.e LCM MnS. The operations (component
Type A) and the NRMs (component Type B) need to be defined.
### 9.1.2 Edge Performance Assurance
Performance assurance of EAS, EES and ECS will be done as it is done for any
other Managed Function. Two alternatives have been identified;
a) using performance job control as defined in TS 28.550 [8],
b) using configurable measurement control as defined in TS 28.622 [10]. In
both the alternatives the performance measurements for EAS, EES and ECS need
to be defined.
91.3 Edge Fault Supervision
The FS Data Report for NF MnS is used to collect alarm notifications for 5C
NFs that may impact EAS performance. Similar, the FS Data Report for NF MnS
can be used to collect alarm notifications for EES and ECS.
### 9.1.4 Edge Deployment Support
In the EAS registration procedure the EAS sends a registration request with
the EAS profile to the EES. Some information elements in the EAS profile may
need to be configured by OAM. Generic provisioning MnS, acting on appropriate
NRM, can be used for this purpose. EAS profile parameters to be define as part
of 5G NRM.
When a new EAS is deployed, it is essential that 5GC has an UPF available with
sufficient resources as required in the EAS profile. Generic provisioning MnS
or LCM MnS can be used for this purpose. The edge components need to access
5GC network for the retrieval of network capability information. In order to
enable the same the edge related NRM need to contain the appropriate
information related to PCF, NEF and SCEF. Generic provisioning MnS can be used
to do required configurations.
## 9.2 Recommendations
It is recommended to start the normative work covering the following:
\- Specifying enhancements of provisioning MnS needed to support the
asynchronous mode of operations for LCM.
\- Specifying enhancements to 3GPP NRMs supporting:
\- Lifecycle management of EAS, EES, ECS and EASDF.
\- EAS profile configurations
\- EAS, EES and ECS access to 5GC functionality
\- Performance Assurance: Specifying appropriate performance measurements and
KPIs for EAS, EES, ECS and EASDF in TS 28.552 [11] and TS 28.554 [14]. This
will also include enabling a consumer, such as ECSP, to collect 5GC NF
performance measurements that may impact EAS performance.
\- Fault supervision: Enabling a consumer, such as ECSP, to receive 5GC NF
alarms that may impact EAS performance.
\- Specifying workflows for EAS, EES, ECS and EASDF related to edge computing
management.
###### ### Annex A: Deployment model
Several entities are involved in an edge computing ecosystem including ASP
(Application Service Provider), ECSP (Edge Computing Service Provider), PLMN
Operator etc. The application service provider consumes the edge services
(e.g., infrastructure, platform) provided by the edge computing service
provider (ECSP). As per the architecture defined in TS 23.558 [2] there can be
multiple deployment variations. While some of the deployment model are very
well in-scope of this document, some falls out of the scope. The following
figures captures various deployment model pertaining to EAS, EES and ECS
management.
{width="5.775in" height="3.6166666666666667in"}
In the above figure \"Provided by\" imply that the functionality is created by
a particular entity. Whereas, \"Managed by\" imply that the LCM, PA and FS of
the functionality is done by a particular entity.
#