# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes, intent driven management concept, intent
driven management scenarios, and recommendation for the way forward on
standardization expression of the intent in normative phase. The relation with
other automation mechanisms is also addressed in this study.
The present document considers below dimensions when studying Intent driven
management. For each dimension the scope is narrowed down to a certain aspect:
1) Users; The study covers the Technical (NOP, NEP) and Techno-Business (CSP)
2) Networks; The study covers the 5G and 4G
3) Operated System; The study covers the Co-ordinated and Complex systems
4) Infrastructure Automation; The study covers more Autonomous and less
Automatic
5) Language; The scope covers more declarative and less Imperative
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.533: \" Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[7] IETF RFC 3198: Terminology for Policy-Based Management
[8] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network
Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TR 28.805: \"Study on management aspects of communication
services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.628: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Policy management:** A function that governs the choices in behaviour of a
system.
NOTE: It specifies the action(s) to be taken when specified condition(s)
occur. See IETF RFC 3198 [7] for details about definition and terminologies
for policy driven management.
**Intent:** A desire to reach a certain state/position for a specific entity
for instance for a service assurance or network deployment task.
NOTE: An intent does not define the necessary steps to get to the wanted
state.
**Intent driven MnS:** A management service that allows its consumer to
express an Intent.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
Intent-CSC Intent from Communication Service Customer
Intent-CSP Intent from Communication Service Provider
Intent-NOP Intent from Network Operator
MOI Managed Object Instance
MnS Management Service
NEP Network Equipment Provider
NOP Network Operator
NSI Network Slice Instance
VISP Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Intent driven management service
### 4.1.1 Introduction
Introduction of service-based architecture for 5G, in combination with
functional model of business roles, exceeds the level of complexity for
managing deployment and assurance use case scenarios both in a single and
multivendor network. New/simpler ways of managing are needed.
Intent driven management service (Intent driven MnS) reduces the complexity of
management without getting into the intricate detail of the underlying network
infrastructure. It will also contribute to efficient network management,
especially in a multiple vendor scenario.
### 4.1.2 Intent driven Management Service (Intent driven MnS) concept
#### 4.1.2.1 Overview
An Intent driven MnS allows its consumer to express desired intent for
managing the network and services. The Intent driven MnS producer paraphrases
the intent to executable actions for service assurance and deployment.
The executable actions can be one or more of the following:
\- Perform network management tasks
\- Identifying, formulating and activating network management policies
The following figure 4.1.2.1-1 shows the model elements of the MnS and usage
of the Intent driven MnS between consumer and producer
{width="3.4854166666666666in" height="1.56875in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-1: Model elements of MnS and Intent driven MnS
The combination of management service components (see subclause 4.3 in TS
28.533 [6]) for Intent driven MnS is described as follows:
\- MnS component type A, the operations and/or notifications agnostic of
specified intent type, for example, a generic operation to transfer intent
from Consumer to Producer.
\- MnS component type B, the model of intent, which is used to modelling the
intent expression information described in clause 4.1.3. As examples described
in clause 4.1.3, the intent driven model may include \'Action\' and
\'Object\'.
\- MnS component type C, performance information and fault information related
to the intent
The MnS of various kinds are specified for deployment over many standardized
reference interfaces. So, the Intent driven MnS could in principle, be
specified for deployment over the same set of standardized reference
interfaces, as a replacement of or as an addition to the deployed MnS, where
the consumer focuses on the \'what\' and the producer is concerned about the
\'how\'.
The following figure 4.1.2.1-2 shows an example using Intent driven MnS to
provision a service.
{width="3.3645833333333335in" height="1.9493055555555556in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-2: An example of using Intent driven management service for
network provisioning
#### 4.1.2.2 Roles for utilization of intent
In an intent driven management service the roles for utilization of intent are
defined as:
\- Communication Service Customer (CSC): The communication service customer
expresses intents for communication services. This role is not necessarily
aware of the network and service operations. The CSCs will monitor the
expressed intents. For details about this role see 3GPP 28.530 [3].
\- Communication Service Provider (CSP): Expresses the intents for deployment
(build, design) and assurance (operation) for communication services. The CSPs
will monitor the expressed intents.
\- Network Operator (NOP): Expresses the intents for deployment (build,
design) and assurance (operation) for network and infrastructure resources.
NOPs will monitor the expressed intents.
#### 4.1.2.3 Management Functions
A Management Function captures the essence of what is managed, by implementing
the network resource model governed by that management function and providing
management data, operations and notifications.
A Management Function can produce or consume both classic and intent driven
MnSs, letting any management layer to be intent driven.
#### 4.1.2.4 Intent related to roles description
##### 4.1.2.4.0 Use of intents
Different kinds of intents are applicable for different kinds of standardized
reference interfaces.
\- Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC)
\- Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP)
\- Intent from Network Operator (Intent-NOP)
{width="5.433333333333334in" height="3.297222222222222in"}
Figure 4.1.2.4.0-1: Concept for utilization of intent
##### 4.1.2.4.1 Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC)
Intent from Communication Service Customer enables Communication Service
Consumer (CSC) to provide what CSC would like to do for the communication
service management without knowing how to do the detailed management. The CSC
may not need to be aware of the details of the network and service operation
when using the communication services. The CSC only provides communication
service management related intent(s) to CSP. The received intents are
translated to network management related intents or detailed network
management requirements.
After the intent received or implemented, CSP provides the feedback
information to the CSC consumer. The feedback information include information
indicating whether the intent is successfully executed or not, and possibly
the reasons for not successful executions (e.g., conflicting with existing
intents).
##### 4.1.2.4.2 Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP)
Intent from communication service provider enables Communication Service
provider (CSP) to express an intent about what CSP would like to achieve in
the network management without knowing how to do the detailed management. The
CSP may not need to have professional knowledge of network operations. The CSP
only provides network management related intent(s) to the NOP, and the NOP
translate the received intent(s) to network equipment management related
intents or detailed network equipment management requirements.
After the intent received and implemented, NOP provides the feedback
information to the CSP.
##### 4.1.2.4.3 Intent from Network Operator (Intent-NOP)
Intent from network operator enables Network Operator (NOP) to provide what
NOP would like to do for the network resource management without knowing how
to do the detailed management. The NOP may not have professional knowledge of
network equipment operation or virtualized infrastructure operation. There are
two type of Intent-NOP:
\- Intent-NOP for NEP, the NOP only expresses network equipment management
related intent to the NEP, and the NEP translates the received intent to
network equipment management requirements.
\- Intent-NOP for VISP, the NOP only expresses virtualized infrastructure
resource management related intent to the VISP, and the VISP translates the
received intent to virtualized infrastructure resource requirements.
After the intent implemented and received, NEP or VISP provides the feedback
information to the NOP. The feedback information see clause 4.1.2.2.
#### 4.1.2.5 Intent driven Management Service (MnS) interactions with 3GPP
management functions
The following figure shows the interaction of intent driven management service
(MnS) with management functions.
{width="3.579861111111111in" height="2.6527777777777777in"}
Figure 4.1.2.5.1: The intent driven management service (MnS) vs classic MnS
The Classic MnSs are specified as follows; Fault Supervision TS 28.545 [8], TS
28.532 [9], Provisioning TS 28.531 [2], TS 28.532 [9] and Performance
Assurance TS 28.550 [10], TS 28.532 [2], Network Resource Model (NRM) TS
28.541 [11], Performance measurements and assurance data TS 28.552 [4] and 5G
End-end Key Performance Indicators (KPI\'s) TS 28.554 [5].
Note 1: The MnS provided by the CSMF is described in TR 28.805 [12].
Note 2: The interactions between Classic MnS and Intent driven MnS is not
addressed in the present document.
### 4.1.3 Intent expression
An intent is a desire to reach a certain state/position for a specific entity
for instance for a service assurance or network deployment task. When an
intent is expressed by a consumer, it needs to be interpreted by the producer
without any ambiguity. This can be achieved by using a machine-readable input,
for instance a declarative language.
The intent expression information may include particular objective and
possibly some related details. For example, the **intent** expression from CSC
may contain elements such as \'Car A wants to acquire V2X communication
service\' which include \'acquire\' and \'V2X communication service\' in its
intent expressions. The **intent** expression from CSP may contain elements
such as \'Provide V2X communications for highway-417 to support 500 vehicles
simultaneously\' which include \'provide\' and \'V2X communications\'. The
**intent expressed from NOP to** NEP may contain elements such as \'optimize
the network to satisfy certain performance requirements\' which include
\'optimize\' and \'target performance requirements\' in its intent
expressions. It is the Intent driven MnSProducers\' responsibility to
translate the intent expression information into services, network operations,
and related resource requirements, to fulfil the intent.
### 4.1.4 Intent translation
The Intent MnS service producer is the provider of Intent driven MnS and is
responsible for deriving activities for networks and services or other
intent(s).
The MnS consumer may consume Intent Driven MnS(s) provided by the Intent
driven MnS producer(s) or may have the consumer role for non-intent MnS
producers.
The conflict(s) including conflict between the intent and other intent(s)
and/or Non-intent requirements needs to be detected and resolved during the
intent translation. Figure 4.1.4-1 illustrate the potential way to execute
intents:
\- Intent-CSC MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for communication
services. Intent-CSC MnS producers receive the expressed intent and translate
it to Intent-CSP or network requirements, then may consume Intent-CSP MnS(s)
or Non-Intent MnS(s) for network to fulfil the intent-CSC.
\- Intent-CSP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network services.
Intent-CSP MnS producers receive the intent and translate it to new Intents
for NOP or network element requirements, then may consume Intent-NOP MnS(s) or
Non-Intent MnS(s) for NE to fulfil the intent-CSP.
\- Intent-NOP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network equipment.
Intent-NOP MnS Producers receive the expressed intent, and translate it to
detailed network element requirements, then takes some internal actions to
fulfil the intent-NEP.
{width="4.764583333333333in" height="2.7222222222222223in"}
Figure 4.1.4-1: Potential way to satisfy intent-CSC
## 4.2 Dimensions of intent driven framework
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The dimensions shown in the figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates various aspects of
intent driven management and shows the boundaries to the ambition aspects of
intent driven management solution.
{width="6.754166666666666in" height="5.345138888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: Dimension of intent
Note: The relation between the Operated system and Management system (Intent
driven MnS producer as a part of it) needs to be clarified and is not
addressed in the present document.
### 4.2.2 Definitions
#### 4.2.2.1 Users
In an intent driven management system, the type \"user\" is one of the
dimensions that plays a role in the definition of the intent driven management
system capabilities. The user of the system will bring expertise from its role
and responsibilities and will have certain expectations on what the system
might do. The user dimension and its levels proposed for the study are those
from the 28.530, Figure 4.8.1 [2]:
**IT Infra user type:** these are the **Data Centre Service Provider** and the
**Virtualization Infrastructure Service Providers**.
**Technical user type:** these are the **Network Operators** which may or may
not combine this role with that of Communication Service Provider, In the case
of a combined role the organization will have a technical department taking
care of network operations and a more customer centric role taking care of the
communication services.
**Techno-business user type:** these are the **Communication Service
Providers** with a more customer and business centric role providing
communication services to different type of customers.
**Business user type:** these are the organizations that traditionally do not
have a telecom or IT background and focus on the business aspects, work
closely together with CSP and NOP to enable ubiquitous communication for their
industry or business.
#### 4.2.2.2 Networks
Supported technology; LTE, 5G, ....
Mobile networks have evolved over different generations and the intent
expression used and interpretation of the intent may vary between generations
therefore the generation of the mobile network technology is a dimension.
#### 4.2.2.3 Operated System
The operated system are the systems that are the receivers and processors of
the intent. The technological evolution has enabled operated system to become
more complex through the introduction of artificial intelligence and machine
learning. While previous generations of operated system are classified as
simple (and maybe not as open as today\'s operated system), the introduction
of \"virtualization\" has made operated system more flexible as various system
functions can be co-ordinated in an agile sort of way. Maybe the co-ordinated
system is generally the current state of the technology, while complex system
with AI and ML are there but not on a ubiquitous scale. These complex systems
will require governance by intents and policies.
#### 4.2.2.4 Infrastructure for automation
This dimension is about the ability of an intent driven system to learn from
its environmental context and apply those learnings to resolution of intent
expressions. The more context the system can learn the less information needs
to be expressed in the intent.
Wikipedia:\ Automatic is Capable of operating without external control or
intervention. (more automatic or less automatic)\ Autonomous is Self-
governing. Intelligent, sentient, self-aware, thinking, feeling, governing
independently.
4.2.2.5 Language
A language is used to express an instruction/activity/operation. There are
different types of languages:
\- Native Machine language: An instruction is expressed in native machine
language (Basically, used to refer to the native computer code i.e. binary
code).
\- Imperative: An instruction is expressed in simple statements. It focuses
more on describing the \"How\" but less on \"What\".
\- Declarative: An instruction is expressed without describing control flow.
It focuses more on describing the \"What\" but less on \"How\".
\- Natural: An instruction is expressed in human language.
## 4.3 Automation mechanisms and intent driven management
The Intent driven MnS producer may utilize management closed-loop automation
mechanisms (e.g. continuously monitor the intent fulfilment status, analyse
the service and network information and meet the intent automatically etc.).
The closed-loop automation mechanisms to achieve the intent are the
implementation of the producer and are not standardized. The closed-loop
automation of Intent driven MnS Producer is shown in the figure 4.3-1.
For example, to satisfy the Intent-NOP for NEP, after Intent-NOP MnS Producer
translates the received intent to network equipment management requirements,
the Intent-NOP MnS Producer may continuously monitoring the intent fulfilment
status, making analysis and adjust the network automatically to meet the
intent requirements. Some SON automatic mechanisms could be reused by the
producer if needed.
{width="6.406944444444444in" height="2.051388888888889in"}
Figure 4.3-1: Closed-loop automation of Intent driven MnS producer
## 4.4 Intent Driven Management vs Policy Driven Management
A policy is a function that governs the choices in behavior of a system. It
specifies the action(s) to be taken when specified condition(s) occur. See
IETF RFC 3198 [7] for details about definition and terminologies for policy
driven management.
An intent defines to what position (in what state) the consumer wants as
specific entity to be. The necessary steps to get to this position is not
defined by the intent but by policy.
The relation between the policy driven management (rule based) and intent
driven management is shown in the figure below.
{width="5.024305555555555in" height="3.0972222222222223in"}
Figure 4.4-1: Intent driven management vs Policy driven management
This figure describes the \"What-How\" view. As it now stands, the systems are
mainly focused on \"How\" and \"less What\". The networks like 5G brings more
operational complexities, which is driving systems to shift the focus from
\"How\" to \"What\". The first step towards that shift, has been \"Policy
driven management\", with more focus on \"How\" and less on \"What\" covering
domain specific issues/aspects. As technologies are evolving and the level of
complexity exceeds, the need for an abstraction level (Intent) becomes more
apparent. An intent driven system will be able to learn the behavior of
networks and services and allows an operator to provide the desired state,
without detailed knowledge of how to get to the desired state.
## 4.5 Relation between intent driven MnS and SON
SON target information can be derived from Intent, which means MnS producer
can translate the intent to SON target information (e.g. the UE throughput
intent can be translated to SON target information to for one or multiple SON,
e.g. CCO, HO, etc) or MnS producer can use the information in the intent for
SON target directly (e.g. information in the area load balance intent can be
used for SON target of LBO Function).
## 4.6 Lifecycle management of intent
An intent is subject to lifecycle management. An intent request is mapped to
an expression that can be interpreted by a computer and processed with some
input parameters from the request and parameters from the system. The intent
is an instantiation of the intent expression and the associated parameters.
This is captured by the system and lifecycle managed. The lifecycle management
operations of intent may include:
1) Create intent, MnS Consumer deliver a new intent to MnS Producer.
2) Activate intent, MnS Consumer request the MnS Producer to activate an
intent when the intent is inactive.
3) Monitor the network service and performance before and after the
implementation of the intent to evaluate the effect of the intent on the
performance [KPIs].
4) Supervise the fault status before and after the implementation of the
intent to evaluate the effect of the intent on the fault status.
5) De-activate intent, MnS consumer request the MnS Producer to de-activate an
intent. For example, for optimization related intent, the MnS Consumer may
request to de-activate the intent for a period of time.
6) Delete intent, MnS Consumer request the MnS Producer to remove an intent.
7) Query intent, MnS Consumer request MnS Producer to return information,
including content of the intent, state of the intent (e.g. active, inactive),
fulfilment information of the intent.
8) Rollback intent, MnS Consumer requests to revert the active intents of the
MnS Producer to a certain previous state, for example in case problems are
detected during the monitor and supervise operations.
NOTE: The need for all actions above and details would be further discussed in
the normative phase.
{width="2.8194444444444446in" height="2.676388888888889in"}
Figure 4.6-1: The transition of the intent state with lifecycle management
operations
# 5 Scenarios for Intent driven management services for mobile network
## 5.1 Scenarios related to Intent-CSC
### 5.1.1 Service deployment
#### 5.1.1.1 Introduction
In this business scenario a service provider organization expresses the intent
to provide a new service to its customers. The business intent can result in a
number of intent expressions that cover various aspects of the business
intent.
#### 5.1.1.2 Pre-condition
See description.
#### 5.1.1.3 Description
In an organization, the research and market groups perform analysis and
provides input to the Service Strategy & Planning group. The Service Strategy
& Planning group identifies service capabilities and geographical locations
where the services should be running. Based on these results the business
group expresses their intent to introduce \"_a new service for priority
customers_ \". This may lead to it, that parts of the organization have to
take actions concerning the expressed intent.
{width="4.804166666666666in" height="3.3493055555555555in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3-1: Enable MBB Service to Priority Customers
#### 5.1.1.4 Post-condition
Successful activation of the service.
### 5.1.2 Intent driven service creation
#### 5.1.2.1 Pre-condition
A communication service customer expresses its intent to order a 3GPP service
to support a group of end users.
#### 5.1.2.2 Description
In order to enable a group of end users to connect to a 3GPP network, a
communication service customer (CSC) as a MnS Consumer expresses its intent to
order a 3GPP service to CSP. The MnS producer in the CSP translates the CSC\'s
intent to relevant 3GPP service creation requirements (e.g. routing
configuration needed to connect the group of users to the corresponding data
network, QoS requirements (e.g., latency, jitter, error rate, etc.) and
relevant authentication and authorization rules specifying that only the users
specified by the CSP can access the network).
#### 5.1.2.3 Post-condition
The requested 3GPP service for a specified group of end users is provisioned.
### 5.1.3 Intent driven Communication Service deployment at the edge
5.1.3.1 Introduction
In this scenario a CSC expresses the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the
edge of the network. The intent is expressed in terms of service requirements.
The service is deployed without the CSC knowing the details of service
components, their configuration and provisioning.
5.1.3.2 Pre-condition
CSC express the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the edge of the network.
5.1.3.3 Description
CSC, as the MnS consumer, express the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the
edge of the network. The service requirements are expressed in terms of
service description (e.g. availability), required SLA (e.g. latency) and the
information to identify the edge (e.g. geographical area) where the service
needs to be deployed. The MnS producer in the CSP translates the CSC\'s intent
to relevant procedures to be done, including:
\- Identifying the network edge to be used according to the information
provided for the same in the Intent expression.
\- Identifying the CS profile available as per the service description and the
SLA provided.
\- Identification of the resources (NSI/NSSI) to be assigned to the service.
The NSI/NSSI selected contains the suitable edge application required to
provide the service (e.g. a video streaming server for an ultra-low latency
video streaming service).
\- Evaluation of the virtual resources available to the NSI and need to assign
more resources, if required.
5.1.3.4 Post-condition
Successful activation of the requested service at the network edge.
## 5.2 Scenarios related to Intent-CSP
### 5.2.1 Network provisioning
#### 5.2.1.1 Pre-conditions
The network consumer (e.g. vertical customer etc.) wants the network producer
to allocate a network to satisfy the network consumer\'s intent (e.g. provided
with specific network characteristics).
The network provider analyses the intent and triggers the network allocation.
#### 5.2.1.2 Description
The network consumer as MnS consumer expresses his intent for a network by
providing high level requirements (e.g. the service type to be supported with
corresponding geographical areas and time durations, maximum number of UEs,
DL/UL throughput per UE) to MnS consumer). The network consumer does not care
about what network elements are used and how to connect those network
elements.
The MnS consumer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to network
deployment related requirements (e.g. using network slice or not, network
topologies, etc.) and configurations (e.g. radio access network configurations
such as cell list, TA list, DL/UL throughput per cell and UE measurements or
core network configurations such as capacity, memory). According to these
network related requirements, the MnS consumer provides the network to satisfy
the intent of the MnS consumer, using the network provisioning procedures
described in clause 7 in TS 28.531 [2].
{width="5.534722222222222in" height="3.3291666666666666in"}
Figure 5.2.1.2-1: Network provisioning
#### 5.2.1.3 Post-conditions
The requested network as expressed in the intent from the network consumer is
provisioned.
### 5.2.2 NSI resource utilization optimization
#### 5.2.2.1 Pre-condition
Operator wants to optimize the NSI resource utilization efficiency. Since the
network resource has a wide scope, the operator needs to determine further
details, e.g. the aspect of resource utilization efficiency. For instance, the
operator can indicate desired network utilization KPIs such as mean number of
PDU sessions of network and NSI, and virtualised resource utilization of NSI.
The operator can also determine the optimization to be end-to-end or focused
on a selected geographical area.
#### 5.2.2.2 Description
In order to enhance its services, Operator as MnS Consumer expresses intent to
optimize NSI resource utilization to improve network usage efficiency. The
intent expression for NSI resource utilization can include information on
target resource utilization related KPIs, service quality requirements which
can(not) be compromised, service areas for which the NSI resource utilization
should be optimized, and other relevant information.
{width="5.239583333333333in" height="3.658333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: NSI Performance optimization scenario
Based on the intent expression, the MnS Producer decides on necessary
configurations and monitoring for NSI components. Handling the complexity of
the optimization process is the responsibility of the MnS Producer, which
simplifies the process from the perspective of the MnS Consumer. MnS Producer
can utilize SON and MDA services to monitor and predict the performance of
each component, and take some actions to fulfil the intent received from the
operator.
#### 5.2.2.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the network resource utilization optimization is
fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.2.3 Intent driven NSI resource capacity planning scenario
#### 5.2.3.1 Pre-condition
The NSI consumer (e.g. vertical slice customer etc.) wants the NSI Producer to
plan the NSI resource in an optimal status to satisfy the NSI consumer\'s
intent (e.g. NSI resource capacity utilization over 90 %, frequency (daily,
weekly, monthly, etc.), scope (IDs of target NSIs)).
The NSI Producer analyses the intent and triggers the requested NSI capacity
planning operation.
#### 5.2.3.2 Description
The NSI consumer as provisioning MnS consumer expresses his intent for a NSI
resource capacity planning (e.g. desired utilization ratio of the target NSI,
indication of pre-emption of existing provisioned resources, frequency (daily,
weekly, monthly, etc.), scope (target NSIs), etc.) to provisioning MnS
Producer. The NSI consumer does not care about what capacity planning
optimization algorithm is used.
The MnS Producer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to the
implementable NSI resource capacity planning related requirements and performs
NSI resource capacity planning operation to satisfy the intent of the MnS
consumer. All implementable NSI resource capacity planning related
requirements and associated procedure are described in TS 28.531 [2].
{width="3.39375in" height="3.21875in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2-1: An example of intent driven NSI resource capacity planning
scenario
#### 5.2.3.3 Post-condition
The requested NSI resource capacity planning requirements as expressed in the
intent from the NSI consumer is fulfilled and the result of the NSI resource
capacity planning procedure is notified.
### 5.2.4 Intent driven NSI performance assurance scenario
#### 5.2.4.1 Pre-condition
The NSI consumer (e.g. vertical slice customer etc.) wants the NSI Producer to
assure the performance of the provided NSI based on its intent (e.g. type of
services that need performance assurance, granularity of performance assurance
report notifications, etc.).
The NSI Producer translates the intent and triggers the requested NSI
performance assurance operations including resource provisioning based on the
performance requirements, performance monitoring, and performance
notification.
#### 5.2.4.2 Description
The NSI consumer as performance assurance MnS consumer expresses his intent
for a NSI performance assurance (e.g. high-level abstraction of the SLA for
performance assurance, granularity of performance assurance report
notifications, etc.) to performance assurance MnS Producer. The NSI consumer
does not care about what the details of mechanisms to assure the performance.
The MnS Producer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to the
implementable NSI performance assurance related requirements and provisions
target resources, deploy performance monitoring management services, and
perform periodic optimization operations to ensure the target KPIs through the
associated performance assurance related management services. It also
generates performance assurance reports and notifies to the MnS consumers.
All implementable NSI performance assurance related requirements and
associated procedures are defined in TS 28.531 [2], 28.550 [3], 28.552 [4],
28.554 [5].
{width="4.610416666666667in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2-1: An example of intent driven NSI performance assurance
scenario
#### 5.2.4.3 Post-condition
The requested NSI performance assurance requirements as expressed in the
intent from the NSI consumer is fulfilled.
## 5.3 Scenarios related to Intent-NOP
### 5.3.1 Cell Re-home
#### 5.3.1.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to re-home a selected Cell from source RAN Node to
destination RAN Node.
**The** selected Cell **has already been deployed.**
#### 5.3.1.2 Description
Due to network planning or load balance between different RAN Nodes, the
operator wants to re-home a selected Cell from source RAN Node to destination
RAN Node. So operator as MnS Consumer expresses his intent that the selected
Cell needs to be rehomed from the source RAN Node to the destination RAN Node
to the MnS Producer.
{width="4.834027777777778in" height="3.071527777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.1.2-1: An example of cell Re-home scenario
MnS Producer associates the selected re-home Cell to the destination RAN Node.
MnS Producer may adjust corresponding cell relations of the selected Cell and
its neighbour cells within the management scope. MnS Producer may also adjust
corresponding external neighbour Cell.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer (s) to adjust the selected cell
related cell relation(s) according to the selected Cell rehomed.
#### 5.3.1.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell is re-homed to the destination RAN
Node is fulfilled by the MnS Producer which means the selected Cell is
associated to the destination RAN Node and related cell relation(s) and
external neighbour cell(s) are adjusted.
### 5.3.2 Area load balance
#### 5.3.2.1 Pre-condition
Operator wants the selected area to be balanced and ensure sufficient traffic
capacity for new UE(s) to access.
#### 5.3.2.2 Description
In order to avoid traffic congestion for certain Cells and failure access of
new UE(s) in the specified area, Operator as MnS Consumer expresses his intent
that load in the specified area needs to be balanced and ensure sufficient
traffic capacity for new UE(s) access to MnS Producer.
{width="4.420138888888889in" height="3.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: An example of area load balance scenario
Based on the intent received, the MnS Producer decides load balance between
which neighbour Cells in the specified area is needed.
MnS Producer monitors and predicts the traffic load for the each Cell(s) in
the specified areas, and take some actions to fulfil the intent received from
the operator.
The following example is illustrated:
MnS Consumer expresses his intent that the area 1 needs to be load balanced.
MnS Producer identifies the selected area is covered by Cell 1 and Cell 2, and
decides the load balance between neighbour Cell 1 and Cell 2 is needed.
When MnS Producer predicts the traffic may increase with a large number of UEs
in the area, MnS Producer could in advance provide the corresponding RAN with
information that considering the new UEs to access to Cell 1 which has low
traffic compared with Cell 2.
#### 5.3.2.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that traffic load balance for the specified area is
fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.3.3 Instant Cell Updating
#### 5.3.3.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to update Cell with new Cell information (e.g. Frequency
information, PCI) and adjust all associated Cell configuration (e.g. Cell
Relation(s) and External Cell(s)).
#### 5.3.3.2 Description
The operator as MnS expresses his intent that the selected Cell need to be
updated with new Cell information (e.g. frequency information, PCI), and all
associated Cell configuration (e.g. CellRelation(s) and ExternalCell(s)) needs
to be updated.
MnS Producer updates the selected Cell with new cell information.
{width="3.9402777777777778in" height="2.388888888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.3.2-1: Instant Cell updating scenario
MnS Producer updates corresponding External Cell(s) and Cell Relation(s) which
are associated with the selected Cell with the new Cell information.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer (s) to adjust corresponding
External Cell(s) and Cell Relation(s) which are associated with the selected
Cell with the new Cell information.
#### 5.3.3.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell and all associated Cell
configuration (i.e. CellRelation(s), External Cell(s)) need to be updated with
new Cell information is fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.3.4 Instant Cell Deletion
#### 5.3.4.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to delete an existing Cell, and delete all associated Cell
Relation(s) and External Cell(s).
#### 5.3.4.2 Description
Due to network planning (e.g. reduce the capacity can be provided by certain
RAN node), the operator wants to delete a selected Cell. So operator as MnS
Consumer expresses his intent that the selected Cell needs to be deleted and
all associated Cell Relation(s) and External Cell(s) need to be deleted to MnS
Producer.
MnS Producer delete the selected Cell.
MnS Producer derive all associated Cell Relation(s) and External Cell(s), and
delete them.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer(s) to delete ExternalCell(s) and
CellRelation(s) which is associated with the selected Cell.
{width="5.045833333333333in" height="2.620138888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.4.2-1: An example of instant Cell Deletion
#### 5.3.4.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell, and all associated Cell Relation(s)
and External Cell(s) needs to be deleted is fulfilled by the MnS Consumer.
### 5.3.5 Intent driven network optimization scenario
#### 5.3.5.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to optimize the network to satisfy certain user experience
related performance requirements (e.g. the percentage of users with low
experienced data rate (e.g. \< 5 Mbps) should be less than certain value (e.g.
1 %), the average experienced data rate should be greater than 7 Mbps).
#### 5.3.5.2 Description
Due to some user complaint information received, the operator as MnS Consumer
expresses his intent that the network in the specified area needs to be
optimized to satisfy certain user experience related performance requirements
(e.g. the percentage of users with low experienced data rate (e.g. \< 5 Mbps)
should be less than certain value (e.g. 1 %), the average experienced data
rate should be greater than 7 Mbps).
Based on the intent received, the MnS Producer detects the potential network
issues which lead to this poor user experience related performance
requirements (e.g. low experienced data rate (e.g. \< 5 Mbps)), for example,
the handover is happened frequently between some neighbour Cells, some weak
coverage area with large number of users, etc.
The MnS Producer decides the network optimization method (e.g. CCO, HO,
machine learning, etc) to be used and derives the corresponding requirements
(e.g. policy for HO) for the selected network optimization method. For
example, MnS Producer decide to trigger coverage and capacity optimization to
enhance the coverage for the weak areas and trigger the handover optimization
to reduce the frequency of handover between certain neighbour Cells. Another
example, MnS producer may configure admission control policies for the RAN
Node(s) in the specified area to ensure the user experience related
performance requirements.
MnS Producer adjust and monitor the network iteratively until the specified
user experience related performance requirements are satisfied.
MnS Producer may notify the MnS Consumer the fulfilment information of the
network optimization intent (e.g. fulfil or not, percentage of users with low
experienced data rate in the specified area).
{width="5.310416666666667in" height="2.942361111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.5.2-1: An example of utilizing user experience related performance
requirements for network optimization scenario
#### 5.3.5.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the network in the specified area needs to be
optimized to satisfy certain user experience related performance requirements
are fulfilled.
### 5.3.6 Capacity Management
#### 5.3.6.1 Introduction
In this scenario there is a need to rearrange resources in the network to
address a capacity trend. This may result in the rearrangement of physical
resources which can result in the movement of physical resources from one
location to another location. The rearrangement of capacities can be viewed
from a network operator perspective as an external task while the
rearrangement of physical resources can be seen as a network operator internal
task.
#### 5.3.6.2 Pre-condition
In a given geographical area, the sales and marketing group performs an
analysis of Service(A) in the area X where is identified that the data traffic
is declining and in area Y where the data traffic is increasing.
#### 5.3.6.3 Description
The operator wants to rearrange the resource capacity concerning the Service
(A) between area (X) and area (Y). The capacity rearrangement may involve the
reduction of physical resources in one location and an increase of physical
resources in another location. The network operator as a consumer expresses
the requirement in an intent expression for a rearrangement of the resources
in both locations.
NOTE: A physical resource can have different embodiments, it can be for
example a piece of equipment, it can be one or more NFs that are instantiated
on a single piece of HW or in a datacentre or a combination of both.
{width="5.1097222222222225in" height="3.6680555555555556in"}
Figure 5.3.6.3-1: Resource capacity rearrangement
#### 5.3.6.4 Post-condition
The resource capacity rearrangement is successfully done by the producer and
the desired outcome is provided to the consumer.
### 5.3.7 Intent driven NF deployment
#### 5.3.7.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants a new NF (e.g. UPF) to support certain number of UE(s)
(e.g. 5 million) with specified performance requirements (e.g. average latency
should be less than 2 ms).
#### 5.3.7.2 Description
Due to network planning, the operator wants a new NF in the specified area to
support certain number of UE(s) (e.g. 5 million) with specified performance
requirements (e.g. average latency should be less than 2 ms). So the operator
as MnS Consumer expresses his intent that he wants a new NF to support certain
number of UE(s) with specified performance requirements to the MnS Producer.
MnS Producer translates the received intent to the detailed deployment
requirements (e.g. configuration parameters for corresponding MOI (e.g. MF,
EP_RP) and virtualized infrastructure resource requirements (e.g. VNFD and
flavour Id) if the NF contain virtualized part).
MnS Producer deploys the NF based on the derived network configuration
requirements and virtualized infrastructure resource requirements.
{width="4.895138888888889in" height="3.204861111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.7.2-1: Intent driven NF deployment scenario
#### 5.3.7.3 Post-condition
A new NF is deployed which can support certain number of UE(s) with specified
performance requirements.
### 5.3.8 Intent driven NF capacity changing
5.3.8.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to change the capacity of an existing NF instance, for
example, expand capacity of an existing NF instance to support additional
certain number of UE(s) (e.g. 1 million) or shrink capacity of an existing NF
instance to support less number of UE(s).
5.3.8.2 Description
Due to network planning, the operator wants to change capacity of an existing
NF instance, for example, expand capacity of an existing NF instance to
support additional certain number of UE(s) (e.g. 1 million). So the operator
as MnS Consumer expresses his intent that expand capacity of an existing NF
instance to support additional certain number of UE(s) (e.g. 1 million) to the
MnS Producer.
MnS Producer translates the received intent to the detailed modification
requirements (e.g. configuration parameters for corresponding MOI(s)),
virtualized infrastructure resource modification requirements (e.g. flavorId)
if the NF contain virtualized part, physical infrastructure resource
modification requirements).
MnS Producer modifies corresponding NF instance based on the derived detailed
modification requirements.
{width="4.594444444444444in" height="2.4868055555555557in"}
Figure 5.3.8.2-1: Example of intent driven NF capacity changing scenario
5.3.8.3 Post-condition
The capacity of existing NF instance is changed to fulfil the intent.
### 5.3.9 Intent driven management for area based deployment scenario
Area based deployment scenario is a potential deployment scenario for which
the intent driven management can be applied. In this deployment scenario, the
operator\'s network can be divided into several areas and managed based on
area granularity. The network equipment in one area are from one producer. MnS
Producer who is responsible for management of network in the specified area is
responsible for the closed loop automation in this area. One MnS Producer can
manage network in one or multiple area(s).
In an Intent driven management service, the consumer, expresses the intent for
the specified area to the MnS Producer which is responsible for this network
management in this area. MnS Producer translates the intent for the specified
area to the detailed management tasks for managed network equipment\'s in this
specified area, and continuously monitor the managed network equipment to
ensure the intent.
The intent for area-based deployment scenario can either be:
\- \"Provisioning of the network in a specified area with some area network
characteristics (e.g. provisioning radio access network in the specified area
with specified frequency, user experience throughput, user number, isolation
requirements)\", or \"Enabling certain service in the specified area for
certain user group (e.g. enable V2X service for enterprise A in the area X)\".
\- \"Optimization of the network in a specified area with some area
optimization target (e.g. Load Balance in the area X, Admission control in the
area X with admission control requirements)\".
{width="5.727083333333334in" height="3.1708333333333334in"}
Figure 5.3.9-1: Example of intent driven management for area based deployment
scenario
### 5.3.10 Intent driven coverage optimization scenario
#### 5.3.10.1 Pre-condition
Operator wants to optimize the radio network in the specified area to satisfy
the coverage target requirements (e.g. weak coverage ratio less than 5 %,
coverage hole ratio less than 1 %, overshoot coverage ratio less than 2 %).
#### 5.3.10.2 Description
Due to some network coverage issues identified or user complaint information
received, MnS Consumer expresses its intent that the coverage in the specified
area needs to be optimized to satisfy certain coverage requirements (e.g. weak
coverage ratio less than 5 %, coverage hole ratio less than 1 %, overshoot
coverage less than 2 %) to corresponding MnS Producer.
Based on the intent received, MnS Producer collects and analyses corresponding
coverage related measurements of the cells in the specified areas and
identifies the potential cells with network issues.
MnS Producer decides the corresponding management tasks to address the
identified network issues, for example, decides the network optimization
methods (e.g. CCO, AAS) for certain cells and derives the optimization
requirements for the selected network optimization methods, adjust coverage of
certain RAN NFs.
MnS Producer monitors the network and calculates the coverage KPI for the
specified area (e.g. weak coverage ratio, coverage hole ratio, overshoot
coverage ratio), and decides whether coverage target in the intent is
satisfied, if not satisfied, MnS Producer triggers management tasks
iteratively until the intent is satisfied.
MnS Producer may notify the MnS Consumer the coverage KPI for the specified
area (e.g. weak coverage ratio, coverage hole ratio) to enable MnS Consumer
monitor the intent.
#### 5.3.10.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the network in the specified area needs to be
optimized to satisfy certain coverage requirements are fulfilled.
# 6 Introduction and standard consideration for intent driven management
service
## 6.1 Introduction
Intent driven MnS allows its consumer the ability to provide desired intent
for managing the network and service. Intent driven MnS (see subclause 4.3 in
TS 28.533 [6]), includes following MnS components:
\- MnS component type A, operations and/or notifications used for
communication between Intent driven MnS consumer and Intent driven MnS
producer (e.g. provide intent from consumer to producer).
\- MnS component type B, Intent expression, which is used to describe the
intent information.
## 6.2 Operation and/or notification used for intent
Operations and/or notification is used for communication between Intent driven
MnS consumer and producer. Following figures illustrate the potential
synchronous mode and asynchronous mode for communication between Intent driven
MnS consumer and producer.
Figure 6.2-1: Asynchronous mode for communication between Intent driven MnS
consumer and producer
Figure 6.2-2: Synchronous mode for communication between Intent driven MnS
consumer and producer
The intent fulfilment information may contain the information of intent
fulfilled, intent unfulfilled, progress of intent fulfilment or conflicted
with other intent, etc. For asynchronous mode, the notification may be sent
for multiple times, either periodically or event-driven (e.g. fulfilment state
changes).
One potential solution for the lifecycle management operations of intent
specified in clause 4.5 is reusing operations of generic provisioning MnS [9].
An intent is described as a management object. In order to implement
activate/de-activate intent, an attribute (e.g. intentState) may be introduced
for Intent IOC to specify the intent state. The intentState can be enumerative
including _\"Inactive\"_ and _\"Active\"_.
Following are the mapping of the LCM operations of intent to operations of
generic provisioning MnS.
Table 6.2-1: Mapping of LCM operations of intent to operations of generic
provisioning MnS
* * *
**LCM operations of intent** **Operations of generic provisioning MnS**
**Remarks** Create intent createMOI  
Activate intent modifyMOIAttributes The intentState attribute is set as
_\"Active\"_. De-activate intent modifyMOIAttributes The intentState attribute
is set as _\"Inactive\"_. Delete intent deleteMOI  
Query intent getMOIAttributes
* * *
## 6.3 Intent Expression
### 6.3.1 Description
Intent Expression represents the intent including network models and operation
action, which enable consumer describe their requirements for network and
service management.
Each Intent is described by IntentDrivenAction(IDA) and
IntentDrivenObject(IDO) as follows:
### 6.3.2 Intent Driven Object
Intent Driven Object provides the management object information according to
intent requirements. An IntentDrivenObject is described by
IntentDrivenObjectName and a limited set of attributes which are necessary to
identify the object.
Intent Driven Object could be:
\- Existing managed object with simplified attributes. For example,
NetworkSlice can be reused as Intent Driven Object with part of attributes
described in ServiceProfile (e.g. SST, maxNumberofUE, latency, geographical
information) and Cell can be reused as Intent Driven Object with limited
attributes (e.g. cellId, pci and frequency information). For another example,
Subnetwork can be reused as Intent Driven Object with some common
configuration information of underlying managed objects (e.g. frequency
information, PCIList) for a high-level management.
\- New abstract managed object. To enable area-based service or network
deployment and optimization, a new managed object (e.g. \'RAN Cluster\') may
be introduced to represent the management aspect of the network element in a
specific area. RAN Cluster represents a group of RAN Nodes and/or cells for
specific management purposes.
The legal values of Intent Driven Object may be different for different types
of intents. For Intent-CSCs, an example of Intent Driven Object is
Communication Service. For Intent-CSPs, an example of Intent Driven Object is
NetworkSlice. For Intent-NOPs, Intent Driven Object can be SubNetwork, RAN
Cluster, Cell or MF.
### 6.3.3 Intent Driven Action
Intent Driven Action provides, abstract and simplified network and operation
information according to intent requirements. An IntentDrivenAction is
described by IntentDrivenActionName and a limited set of related properties.
Intent Driven Action could be:
\- Deployment related action. For example, the Intent Driven Action could be
Rehome in the cell rehoming scenario, and could be Provision in the network
provisioning scenarios.
\- Optimization related action, For example, the Intent Driven Action could be
LoadBalance in the area loadbalance scenario, and could be User throughput
optimization in the scenario of area-based user throughput optimization.
## 6.4 Analysis on intent driven scenarios
### 6.4.1 Area Load Balance
1\. Intent driven MnS Consumer deliver the following area load balance intent
to Intent driven MnS Producer.
Intent expression information is illustrated in the following table:
Table 6.4.1-1: Content for area load balance intent
* * *
Intent IntentDrivenAction IntentDrivenObject AreaLoad balance Intent
LoadBalance AreaInfo
* * *
The load information specifying which load information needs to be balanced
may be specified in the intent, load information can be PRB usage, user number
or other load information.
2\. When received the area load balance, Intent driven MnS Produce may execute
the following management tasks:
{width="4.208333333333333in" height="2.088888888888889in"}
Figure 6.4.1-1: Example of Intent driven MnS Producer utilizing LBO to satisfy
AreaLoadBalance Intent
2.1 Intent driven MnS Producer analyses information for all Cells in the
specified area and identify overlapping coverage, hierarchical coverage and
neighbouring overage Load Balance scenarios for Cells as described in clause
5.4.1 in TS 28.627.
2.2 Intent driven MnS Producer analyses load balancing allowed/prohibited from
each cell to other cells as described in clause 6.4.2 in TS 28.627, and
configures all corresponding SON Control Function IOC instance (which is name
contained by ManagedFunction) with lboSwitch attribute to enable switching on
all necessary LBO Functions. Intent driven MnS Producer may create new SON
Control Function IOC instance.
2.3 For each identified LBO Function instance needed, Intent driven MnS
Producer analyses and decides corresponding SON target IOC related to LBO
Function for each related cell (e.g. EutranGenericCell, NRCellCU), SON target
IOC for LTE is defined in clause 5.3.1 in 3GPP TS 28.628[13]. Intent driven
MnSmay create corresponding LBO Function IOC instances or reconfigure existing
LBO Function IOC instance.
2.4 Intent driven MnSProducer analyses and configures the SON coordination
policies IOC for different LBO Function instances, and also SON coordination
policies for LBO Function instance with other SON Function instances.
SONCoordinationPolicies IOC is defined in 3GPP TS 28.628[13].
2.5 Intent driven MnSProducer may do other analysis and management tasks to
fulfil the intent.
3\. Intent driven MnSProducer continuously collect performance measurements
defined in clause 4.2.5 in 3GPP TS 28.628 [13] to evaluate the effect for each
LBO Function instances, then evaluate the effect for area load balance intent
based on the evaluation for each LBO Function instance. If the area load
balance cannot be satisfied, Intent driven MnSProducer may execute step 2
recursively to ensure the area load balance fulfilled.
4\. Intent driven MnSProducer may notify Intent driven MnSConsumer about the
fulfil information of area load balance during intent execution.
### 6.4.2 Cell Rehoming
Cell Rehoming scenario (i.e. re-home a selected Cell from source RAN Node to
destination RAN Node) is described in clause 5.3.1. So following procedure
illustrates the solution for cell rehoming.
1\. Intent driven MnS Consumer delivers the following cell rehoming intent to
Intent driven MnS Producer. Cell Rehoming intent information is illustrated in
the following table:
Table 6.4.2-1 Content for Cell Rehoming intent
+---------------------+--------------------+--------------------------------+ | Intent | IntentDrivenAction | IntentDrivenObject | +---------------------+--------------------+--------------------------------+ | CellRehoming Intent | Rehome | DN of rehomed Cell MOI, | | | | | | | | DN of source RAN Node MOI, | | | | | | | | DN of destination RAN Node MOI | +---------------------+--------------------+--------------------------------+
2\. When receive the cell rehoming intent, Intent driven MnS Producer may
execute several management tasks to satisfy the intent. Following is an
example:
2.1 Intent Driven MnS Producer analyses the received cell rehoming intent and
configuration information of the corresponding MOIs (e.g. Cell MOI and
corresponding child MOIs, ExternalCellMOI(s), CellRelationMOI(s)). 2.2 Intent
Driven MnS Producer creates a new MOI tree of rehomed cell (i.e. rehomed Cell
MOI and its child MOI(s)) contained by destination RAN Node MOI, and configure
these MOI(s) with same attributes captured in the original MOI tree.
2.3 Intent Driven MnS Producer modify existing CellRelation IOC (which
associated to rehomed Cell MOI) contained in tree of source and destination
RAN Node MOIs to the new created rehomed Cell MOI.
2.4 Intent Driven MnS Producer modify existing CellRelation IOC (which
associated to rehomed Cell MOI) contained in tree of other RAN Node MOI(s) to
the new created rehomed Cell MOI.
2.5 Intent Driven MnS Producer delete existing MOI tree of rehomed cell
contained by the source RAN Node MOI.
2.6 Intent Driven MnS Producer may do other analysis (e.g. PCI collision
analysis) and management tasks to fulfil the cell rehomed intent.
3\. Intent Driven MnS Producer may notify Intent Driven MnS Consumer about the
fulfil information of cell rehoming intent during intent execution.
Figure 6.4.2-1 shows a simple example of cell rehoming scenario (which MOI
tree only contains two ENBFunction MOIs, three EUtranGenericCell(s) and
EUtranRelationMOI(s)), in real deployment scenario, the MOI tree is more
complex, which may contain hundreds of RAN Node MOIs, thousands of Cell MOIs
and CellRelation MOIs.
{width="5.621527777777778in" height="3.327777777777778in"}
Figure 6.4.2-1: Simple example of cell rehoming scenario
### 6.4.3 UE throughput optimization
1\. Intent driven MnS Consumer sends the following UE throughput optimization
intent to Intent driven MnS Producer.
Table 6.4.3-1: Content of UE throughput optimization intent
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intent | IntentDrivenAction | IntentDrivenObject | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE throughput | UE throughput | AreaInfo | | optimization | Optimization | | | | | Max percentage of UE | | | | with low throughput | | | | | | | | Min average UE | | | | throughput | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The threshold for low throughput needs to be specified (e.g. 5 Mbps).
2\. When received the UE throughput optimization intent, Intent driven MnS
Producer may execute the following management tasks to satisfy the intent.
Following is an example:
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="2.09375in"}
Figure 6.4.3-1: Example of Intent driven MnS Producer satisfying UE throughput
optimization intent
2.1 Intent driven MnS Producer analyses the network performance and detects
the potential network issues which lead to this poor network performance in
the specified area (e.g., the handover is happened frequently between some
neighbour Cells, some weak coverage area with large number of UEs).
2.2 Intent driven MnS Producer identifies the potential SON Function instances
(e.g. HOO Function, CCO Function, LBO Function) for corresponding managed
objects (e.g. Cell) to optimize the network, and configure all corresponding
SON Control Function IOC instance (described in clause 5.3.2 in TS 28.628) to
enable switching on required SON Functions (e.g. HOO Function, CCO Function).
2.3 For each identified SON Function instance, Intent driven MnS Producer
analyses and decides corresponding SON target IOC. SON target IOC for LTE is
defined in clause 5.3.1 in TS 28.628. Intent driven MnS may create
corresponding SON Function IOC instances or reconfigure existing SON Function
IOC instance.
2.4 Intent driven MnS Producer analyses and configures the SON coordination
policies IOC for the identified SON Function IOC instances.
SONCoordinationPolicies IOC for LTE is defined in TS 28.628.
2.5 Intent driven MnS Producer may do other analysis and management methods
(e.g., machine learning) to fulfil the intent.
3\. Intent driven MnS Producer continuously collects throughput of all the UEs
in the area indicated by the intent, and calculates the percentage of UEs with
the low throughput and average UE throughput in the area so as to evaluate
whether the intent is fulfilled. If the intent cannot be satisfied, Intent
driven MnS Producer may execute step 2 recursively to ensure the intent
fulfilled.
4\. Intent driven MnS Producer may notify Intent driven MnS Consumer about the
fulfilment information of UE throughput optimization during intent execution.
### 6.4.4 Network provisioning
1\. Intent driven MnS Consumer sends the following network provisioning intent
to Intent driven MnS Producer.
Table 6.4.4-1: Content of network provisioning intent
+----------------------+----------------------+-------------------------+ | Intent | IntentDrivenAction | IntentDrivenObject | +----------------------+----------------------+-------------------------+ | Network provisioning | Network provisioning | AreaInfo | | | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs | | | | | | | | DL/UL throughput per UE | | | | | | | | Service/Slice Type | | | | | | | | latency | +----------------------+----------------------+-------------------------+
2\. When received the network provisioning intent, Intent driven MnS Producer
may execute the several management tasks to satisfy the intent. Following is
an example:
{width="4.7243055555555555in" height="2.3722222222222222in"}
Figure 6.4.4-1: Example of Intent driven MnS Producer satisfying network
provisioning intent
2.1 Intent driven MnS Producer analyses the network requirements (e.g. Maximum
number of UEs, DL/UL throughput per UE) indicated in the network provisioning
intent and decides to use network with or without slicing to satisfy the
intent.
2.2 If using a network with slicing, Intent driven MnS Producer derives the
network slice related requirements as described in TS 28.531 based on the
network requirement indicated in the network provisioning intent, and create
Network Slice IOC instance including ServiceProfile DataType to create a
network slice instance or reconfigure existing Network Slice IOC instance
including ServiceProfile DataType to reuse an existing network slice instance.
The detailed procedure for Network Slice Creation including Network Slice
SubNetwork Creation is described in TS 28.531.
2.3 If using a network without slicing, Intent driven MnS Producer derives the
requirements for SubNetwork and MF as described in TS 28.622 and TS 28.541
based on the network requirement indicated in the network provisioning intent,
and create SubNetwork IOC instance (including corresponding child IOC) to
create a new subnetwork instance or reconfigure SubNetwork IOC instance
(including corresponding child IOC) to use existing subnetwork instance.
2.4 Intent driven MnS Producer may configure other IOCs to fulfil the intent.
3\. Intent driven MnS Producer may notify Intent driven MnS Consumer about the
fulfilment information of network provisioning intent after the intent
execution.
### 6.4.5 Area-based radio network
#### 6.4.5.1 Introduction
Area-based radio network deployment scenario described in clause 5.3.9.
Following Figure 6.4.5.1-1 illustrates utilization of Intent driven MnS(s) for
the area based radio network deployment scenario.
{width="4.040277777777778in" height="2.682638888888889in"}
Figure 6.4.5.1-1 Utilization of Intent driven MnS(s) for the area based radio
network deployment scenario
#### 6.4.5.2 Area-based radio network deployment intent
Following procedure illustrates a potential solution for the area-based radio
network deployment scenario.
1\. Intent-driven MnS Consumer delivers a radio network deployment intent
(i.e. deploy RAN Cluster) to Intent-driven MnS Producer. Information in the
intent expression includes specified radio coverage area (e.g. a list of
sector areas needed to be covered), supported frequencies isolation
requirements (e.g. whether the user plane in the RAN Cluster is shared with
other RAN Clusters), transport information, CellLocalId list and RAN Node Id
list that available for the RAN Nodes or Cells in the RAN Cluster, supported
service type, max number of UEs and DL/UL throughput of the UE in RAN Cluster,
without detailed radio configuration parameters.
Table 6.4.5.2-1 Content of ared-based redio network deployment intent
+----------------+--------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Intent | IntentDrivenAction | IntentDrivenObject | +----------------+--------------------+---------------------------------------+ | RAN Deployment | Provisioning | radio coverage area information | | | | | | | | frequency information | | | | | | | | isolation requirements | | | | | | | | transport information | | | | | | | | ranges of CellLocalId and RAN Node Id | | | | | | | | service type | | | | | | | | Maximum number of UEs | | | | | | | | DL/UL throughput per UE | +----------------+--------------------+---------------------------------------+
2\. When receiving the intent, the MnS Producer may execute several management
tasks to fulfil the RAN deployment intent, for example by utilizing network
slice subnet procedure described in TS 28.531[1] or executing the following
procedure:
2.1 Intent-driven MnS Producer identifies the RAN Nodes within the RAN Cluster
according to the specified radio coverage area information, and creates
necessary RAN ManagedFunction MOI(s) and configures with corresponding RAN
Node Id (e.g. gNBId).
2.2 Intent-driven MnS Producer creates a group of Cell MOI(s) with radio
configurations (including CelllocalId and frequency information) and ensures
that these cells are able to carry the maximum number of UEs and provide DL/UL
throughput per UE.
2.3 Intent-driven MnS Producer creates EP_RP MOI(s) for logical links between
the RAN Cluster and other network entities according to the transport
information.
2.4 Intent-driven MnS may implement necessary policies to satisfy isolation
requirements.
3\. Intent-driven MnS Producer notifies Intent-driven MnS Consumer about the
fulfilment information of RAN Cluster deployment intent after the
configuration is finished.
### 6.4.6 CSI Deployment at edge (CSIatEdge)
1\. Intent driven MnS Consumer sends the following CSIatEdge intent to Intent
driven MnS Producer.
Figure 6.4.6-1: Content of CSIatEdge intent
+------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Intent | IntentDrivenAction | IntentDrivenObject | +------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------+ | CSIatEdge Intent | **CSI Deployment** | **Service type** | | | | | | | | **Service requirement** | | | | | | | | **Service availability** | | | | | | | | **Edge identification information** | +------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------+
1.1 Service type: TS 23.501 defined three types of slice/service type; eMBB,
URLLC, MIoT. The Service type parameter can have values related to three
defined service type or any additional service type, as required.
1.2 Service requirements: This parameter provides various service requirements
e.g. No. of concurrent subscribers, No. of concurrent sessions, requested
server side application
1.3 Service availability: This parameter defines availability of the service.
For e.g., it can define a time bound availability for the service. This is
useful to enable the targeted availability of the service at a particular
point of time or day of the week or a combination of both.
1.4 Edge identification information: A service provider may have edge network
deployed at many locations. It is crucial to identify the targeted edge
network where the communication service need to be deployed. It may contain
edge ID, geoLocation, area info etc.
2 Post receiving the CSIatEdge Intent, Intent driven MnS Producer will create
and instantiate the CSI as described in [12] with the following additional
procedure
2.1 The edge network will be identified based on the information provided in
the request.
2.2 In addition to the required 5GS network functions (for example, UPF) the
NSI used contains the applications (requested as part of service requirements)
providing server functionality for the required service (for example, a video
streaming server functionality for an ultra-low latency video streaming
service).
# 7 Key issues of Intent driven MnSstudy
## 7.1 Key issue-1: Study on the level of automation in mobile network
management
There are many different ways to reduce the complexity of network and service
management with automation mechanisms. It is necessary to identify the
potential automation levels in mobile network management and clarify which
management scenario is related to which level. The relation between SON,
Intent driven MnS or other automation mechanisms needs to be addressed under
this study.
## 7.2 Key issue-2: Study the scenarios which are related to Intent driven MnS
Intent driven MnS can be leveraged to alleviate the complexity of network
management for mobile networks. Intent driven MnSabstracts the network
implementation details and allows the consumer to manage its network and
service using high level instructions. In an intent driven network management
scenario, a consumer expresses the desired outcome of the management of
network, i.e., \'what\' the management of network should do. The Intent driven
MnSproducer translates the intent from the Intent driven MnSconsumer and
figures out \'how\' the intent is realized. It is necessary to identify the
scenarios which are valid for IDM.
# 8 Potential requirements for intent driven MnS
**REQ-Intent -CON-01** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling
MnS consumer to convey intent for coverage optimization to MnS Producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-02** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for cell rehome to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-03** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for UE throughput optimization to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-04** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for network provisioning to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-05** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for network performance assurance to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-06** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for service deployment to MnS producer.
**REQ-Intent-CON-07** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for area based network deployment.
**REQ-Intent-CON-08** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to convey intent for area based network assurance.
**REQ-Intent-CON-09** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to request MnS producer to create and delete an intent.
**REQ-Intent-CON-10** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to request MnS producer to activate/de-activate an intent.
**REQ-Intent-CON-11** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to request MnS producer to query an intent (including obtaining
information about fulfilment of an intent).
**REQ-Intent-CON-12** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling MnS
consumer to obtain performance and fault information related to intent.
**REQ-Intent -CON-13** The intent driven MnS shall have capability enabling
MnS consumer to convey intent for CSI deployment at the edge to MnS Producer.
# 9 Recommendation and Conclusion
The study has identified:
\- Definition of intent, Policy management and intent driven MnS.
\- Concepts related to intent driven management, including intent driven MnS,
intent expression, intent translation, dimensions of intent driven framework,
automation mechanisms and intent driven management, intent driven management
vs policy driven management, relation of intent driven MnS and SON, and
lifecycle management of intent.
\- Several scenarios related to Intent-CSC, Intent-CSP and Intent-NOP which
can reduce the management complexity. For example, a series of area based
network management scenarios are introduced to simplify the management
interface by managing the mobile network in area granularity.
\- Potential requirements for intent driven MnS.
\- Standard consideration for Intent Driven MnS which include intent driven
related operation and/or notification and Intent Expression. The potential
solution for intent driven related operations is reusing CRUD operation
defined in generic provisioning MnS. Intent Expression include Intent Driven
Object and Intent Driven Action. Intent Driven Object could be existing
managed object with simplified attributes or new abstract managed object (e.g.
introduce RAN Cluster to represent the management aspect of the network
element in a specific area). Intent Driven Action could be deployment related
action or optimization related action.
\- Analysis on solution (including Intent Driven Object and Intent Driven
Action for the some of the identified scenarios have been addressed as
examples.
It is recommended to consider normative work for the Intent driven management
services for mobile networks with considering the following aspects:
\- Intent driven management related definition and concepts.
\- Roles which are related to the intent driven management.
\- Typical scenarios and management requirements for intent driven management
which can reduce the management integration complexity.
\- The mechanisms for reuse the generic management service CRUD operation to
realize Intent driven MnS.
\- Specify the modelling solution including Intent Driven Action and Intent
Driven Object for the identified scenarios.
###### ### Annex A: Categories for Intent driven management services scenarios
Scenarios for Intent driven MnS can be categorized based on the network
operations and services provided by the mobile network operator. The scenarios
are applicable to different teams/group within the mobile network operator\'s
organization and involve providing/updating/new resource/network information
or ensuring the network/services are performing optimally. Different
approaches might be taken to fulfil a particular scenario depending on the
type of scenario.
Identified scenarios in the present document are either a deployment or an
assurance scenario. Other categories might exist but not yet identified or
included in the present document.
Examples on Deployment scenarios in clause 5: \"Service deployment\", \"Cell
re-home\", \"Instant Cell Updating\" and \"Instant Cell Deletion\", \"Capacity
Management\", \"Intent driven NF deployment\", and \"Intent driven NF capacity
changing\".
Examples on Assurance scenarios in clause 5: \"NSI resource utilization
optimization\", \"Intent driven NSI performance assurance\", \"Area Load
Balance\", and \"Intent driven network optimization\".
#