# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document considers the following issues:
\- The potential network slice information model and management service
enhancements to support cross-operator network slice management use case.
\- The potential new management capabilities to support end to end network
slicing.
\- The potential new management capabilities to support security management of
network slice.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.532 : \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[11] 3GPP TR 21.905 : \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
## [15] GSMA NG.116: \"Generic Network Slice Template v1.0 (2019-05-23)\"
https://www.gsma.com/newsroom/wp-content/uploads//NG.116-v1.0-4.pdf.
[16] 3GPP TS 23.503: \" Policy and charging control framework for the 5G
System (5GS); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[11] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[11].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [11] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [11].
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Network slice management terms
The following terms are defined in 3GPP specifications:
Term Reference Definition
* * *
Network Slice TS 23.501 [1] A logical network that provides specific network
capabilities and network characteristics _._ Network Slice instance TS 23.501
[1] A set of Network Function instances and the required resources (e.g.
compute, storage and networking resources) which form a deployed Network
Slice. NSI ID TS 23.501 [1] An identifier for identifying the Core Network
part of a Network Slice instance when multiple Network Slice instances of the
same Network Slice are deployed, and there is a need to differentiate between
them in the 5GC.
The following terms are defined in 3GPP specifications.
* * *
Term Reference Definition
* * *
network slice TS 28.530 [4] A logical network that provides specific network
capabilities and network characteristics, supporting various service
properties for network slice customers.
\>\ TS 28.541 [2] This IOC represents the properties
of a network slice instance in a 5G network. NetworkSlice
NetworkSlice instance TS 28.530 [4] A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of
NetworkSlice IOC.
NetworkSlice identifier TS 28.531 [3] To identify a NetworkSlice instance
defined in TS 28.530, it is DN of a managed object instance of NetworkSlice
IOC [2].
cNSIIdList TS 28.541 [2] It is a set of NSI ID. NSI ID is an identifier for
identifying the Core Network part of a Network Slice instance when multiple
Network Slice instances of the same Network Slice are deployed, and there is a
need to differentiate between them in the 5GC.
network slice subnet TS 28.530 [4] A representation of a set of network
functions and the associated resources (e.g. compute, storage and networking
resources) supporting network slice.
\>\ TS 28.541 [2] This IOC represents the properties
of a network slice subnet instance in a 5G network. NetworkSliceSubnet
NetworkSliceSubnet instance TS 28.530 [4] A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC.
NetworkSliceSubnet identifier TS 28.531 [3] To identify a NetworkSliceSubnet
instance defined in TS 28.530, it is DN of a managed object instance of
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC [2].
* * *
## 4.2 Multi-operator relationships in network slice management
Multi-operator network slice management refers to scenarios where multiple
network operators are involved in providing a network slice.
The following figure is a subset of TS 28.530 [4], Figure 4.8.1, with focus on
the relationship between the Communication Service Provider and Network
Operator.
Figure 4.2.1: High-level model of roles
However, TS 28.530 [4] does not describe the fact that multiple Network
Operators may be involved. The following figure considers a scenario where
Network Operator A may source network resources from another Network Operator
B. The sourced network resources are packaged as a Communication Service,
therefore Network Operator A behaves as a Communication Service Customer and
Network Operator B behaves as a Communication Service Provider.
Figure 4.2.2: Multi-operator scenario
## 4.3 End to end management of network slice
Management of network slices is the set of management and orchestration
activities that allow the deployment and operation of network slices across
multiple administrative and network management domains. According to TS 28.530
[4], a network slice includes all the network function instances, with their
supporting resources, to provide a certain set of communication services to
serve a certain business purpose.
## 4.4 Multi-operator concepts
### 4.4.1 National roaming concept
National Roaming is defined in TS 22.011 [10] as a service whereby a UE of a
given PLMN is able to obtain service from another PLMN of the same country,
anywhere, or on a regional basis. It is used today e.g. between EPS networks.
In the following figure, Network operator A and B have a national roaming
agreement and subscribers of network operator A can use the 5GS network of
network operator B, while using the communication services of network operator
A.
Figure 4.4.1.1: National roaming concept
Management interactions between and by network operators involved here: both
the network operator A and B have instantiated network slices. Network
operator B determines which network slices are allowed to be used by inbound
roamers from network operator A, and if needed, will configure its network to
support mapping of S-NSSAI as defined in TS 23.501 [1].
If subscribers of network operator A are visiting the network of network
operator B the roaming principles as standardized in TS 23.501 [1] apply,
i.e., the UE of network operator A will register into 5GC with an AMF in
network operator B, and will receive Allowed NSSAI and other network slicing
related information as needed. In case of home routing, PDU sessions with an
S-NSSAI are established with V-SMF in network operator B and H-SMF in network
operator A.
# 5 Scenarios for Network Slicing Management Enhancements
## 5.1 Network Slice using multiple networks scenario 1
### 5.1.1 Description RAN sharing
CSP wishes to provide a communication service in multiple regions. The CSP has
selected NOP-A as network slice provider. NOP-A does not have RAN coverage in
all of the geographical areas that are required by the CSP.
NOP-A selects NOP-B to provide the missing RAN coverage for one or more
geographical areas.
Note 1: It is assumed that the geographical areas are located in a single
country and that a single PLMN ID is used. International roaming scenario is
not addressed here and may be more similar to the national roaming scenario in
clause 5.2.
The roles of CSP and NOP-A may be played by either same or different
companies. Further details how CSP interacts with NOP-A to order, provision or
monitor a network slice is out the scope of this use case. It is expected to
follow general network slice use cases and not be specific to the RAN sharing
scenario.
It is assumed that NOP-A and NOP-B roles are played by different companies,
hereafter referred to as Company-NA and Company-NB. This is illustrated in
figure 5.1.1-1. For interaction between Company-NA and Company-NB for RAN
sharing, the applicability and meaning of additional roles such as NSC and NSP
will be considered as part of potential solutions.
{width="3.0215277777777776in" height="3.582638888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1 Interaction between Company-NA and Company-NB
As pre-condition for this scenario, Company-NA may need a general RAN sharing
agreement with Company-NB. Details of how to establish such an agreement is
out of scope for this use case.
To support request from CSP, Company-NA orders or modifies a service from BSS
of Company-NB which will provide the required RAN coverage. Company-NB may in
turn issue one or more requests to its own 3GPP management system from its own
BSS based on the agreed order from Company-NA.
NOTE 2: Details of how Company-NA orders service product from BSS of Company-
NB and negotiates SLA is out the scope of this use case.
During operation phase, Company-NA may further provision or monitor the RAN
coverage service via BSS of Company-NB, depending on agreed level of
management capability exposure.
The ServiceProfile corresponding to the CSP communication service will be
associated with a NetworkSlice instance in NOP-A\'s management system.
NOP-A\'s management system will also contain a corresponding top
NetworkSliceSubnet instance as well as additional objects representing
constituents that are part of NOP-A\'s network. The modelling of NOP-B network
constituents in NOP-B\'s management system, as well as how they are referred
from NOP-A\'s management system is partly solution dependent and will be
further discussed for each potential solution.
### 5.1.2 Identified problems and general issues
There is no guidance for a RAN service provider on the management capabilities
that should be exposed to allow different management levels for resources
related to the RAN service.
Network slicing scenarios where one or more network slice constituents are
provided by a second operator are new and raise a number of issues related to
terminology, modelling, APIs, abstraction level and security. Possible
solutions together with a more detailed analysis can be found in clause 7.2.
In the scenario description, it is indicated that BSS of Company-NA interacts
with BSS of Company-NB. Also it is indicated that BSS of Company-NB in turn
can use 3GPP management APIs towards its own management system as part of
handling requests from Company-NA. This should be viewed as a simplified
description of the interaction:
\- In Company-NB, service access may under certain circumstances be delegated
to separate service exposure function and enabled for use by Company-NA based
on BSS level agreement. But as for BSS level, even in this case details of
exposed APIs are currently outside scope of 3GPP standardization. Exposure of
management capabilities and interaction between companies is further studied
in SI FS_NSCE.
\- There may be additional service management layers between system handling
external request and the 3GPP management system.
## 5.2 Network slice using multiple networks scenario 2
### 5.2.1 National Roaming Description
CSP-A wishes to provide a communication service using NOP-A. NOP-A does not
have network slice coverage in these geographical areas that are required by
the CSP-A. CSP-A has a national roaming agreement with CSP-B to allow
subscribers of NOP-A to roam into NOP-B.
NOTE: National roaming is an agreement between two MNOs, and both may have the
roles of CSP, NOP, and NSP.
As part of the agreement with CSP-B, CSP-A requests CSP-B to support a
communication service for inbound roamers with certain capabilities. CSP-A
need to inform CSP-B about the S-NSSAI(s) used by inbound roamers and for the
capabilities required for this communication service. CSP-B needs this
information first of all to check (with NOP-B) on the NetworkSlice instance(s)
to be used by the inbound roamers and whether there is a need to map the CSP-A
S-NSSAI(s) to CSP-B S-NSSAI(s). CSP-B may issue the request to its own 3GPP
management system. Exposure of management capabilities and interaction between
companies is further studied in SI FS_NSCE.
### 5.2.2 Identified problems
For national roaming, 3GPP management system needs to enable consumer to
provide S-NSSAI(s) information in order to map CSP-A S-NSSAI(s) to CSP-B
S-NSSAI(s).
## 5.3 Use case -- Isolated deployment of multiple network slices of same
customer
### 5.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
In this use case, one network slice customer (e.g. a public safety department,
or NSC_PS-1) requests two network slices from a network slice provider to
support mIoT services of two regions, e.g. in two cities, and other service
requirements (besides coverage area) of the two slices can be different also.
The isolation requirements of the two mIoT network slices are same, both
require to physically isolate user plane of the network slice from network
slices of other network slice customers (no restriction on control plane). In
addition, to save total cost, the network slice customer NSC_PS-1 agrees that
the two mIoT network slices can share resources with each other without
physical isolation. As shown in below, user plane of both NS_mIoT-1 and
NS_mIoT-2 are separated from NS_x1 and NS_x2, e.g. NS_mIoT-1 and NS_mIoT-2 are
deployed on different physical nodes (e.g. physical gNBs, physical UPFs or
servers to accommodate virtualized UPF instances) than nodes of NS_x1 and
NS_x2. However, NS_mIoT-1 and NS_mIoT-2 could share same physical resources,
e.g. physical UPF or server/host OS in where the virtualized UPF instances are
deployed.
{width="5.971527777777778in" height="1.7770833333333333in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1: Example of isolated deployment of two network slices of same
customer
In other words, NS_mIoT-1 and NS_mIoT-2 of NSC_PS-1 are deployed in one
security domain (refer to 33.210), which is isolated from other security
domains. The NS_mIoT-1 and NS_mIoT-2 share isolation requirements, as well as
resources.
To optimize operational procedures, an MNO/NOP (as internal customer) may
create network slices for their own eMBB service subscribers in different
cities. e.g. NS_eMBB-1 and NS_eMBB-2, and other service requirements (besides
coverage area) of the two slices can be different also. To better utilize
resource, these two eMBB services can share same resources. As shown in below,
resource of both NS_eMBB-1 and NS_eMBB-2 are separated from NS_x1 and NS_x2,
but NS_eMBB-1 and NS_eMBB-2 could share same resource.
{width="5.719444444444444in" height="1.7020833333333334in"}
Figure 5.3.1-2: Example of isolated deployment of two network slices of
operator
### 5.3.2 Issue and gaps
The resourceSharingLevel attribute is defined in ServiceProfile dataType \-
see Network Slice IOC defined in 5G Network Resource Model (NRM). This
attribute only specifies whether the resources to be allocated to the network
slice can be shared with other network slice(s). The existing 3GPP management
system capabilities cannot support the use cases and potential requirements
described above, which implied not only granular isolation requirements for
network slice (e.g. isolation attribute specified in GSMA PRD NG.116), but
also flexible inclusion/exclusion rules between network slices (e.g. group
network slices with same isolation requirement and security level together,
and isolate the network slices in the group from network slices in other
groups).
## 5.4 Deployment of edge application service
### 5.4.1 Description
NOP wishes to provide an edge application service which is to be deployed as
part of a network slice.
NOP allocates a network slice for the new service, which includes Edge
Application Server (EAS) and Edge Enablement Server (EES) as Core Network NFs.
An S-NSSAI identifies the allocated network slice.
If NOP is the owner of the Edge Configuration Server (ECS), NOP configures ECS
with the relevant S-NSSAI for the new edge application service. Otherwise, NOP
informs the owner of the ECS of the relevant S-NSSAI and the owner of the ECS
configures the ECS.
When a UE registers on the network, the UE sends a service provisioning
request to ECS. The response from ECS includes the S-NSSAI for the edge
application service.
### 5.4.2 Identified problems
When allocating a network slice, it is not possible to specify in
ServiceProfile that the network slice should contain EAS and EES, and that the
network slice should support a particular edge application service.
NRM for Edge Configuration Server should include S-NSSAI for the edge
application service.
## 5.5 Use case -- Support network slice specific authentication
### 5.5.1 Description
Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization (NSSAA) attribute is
defined in GSMA GST [15] to specify whether for the network slice, devices
need to be also authenticated and authorized by a AAA server using additional
credentials different than the ones used for the primary authentication. This
feature was defined in clause 5.15.10 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [1], and related
procedures were specified in TS 23.502 [12].
According to Network Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization procedure
described in clause 4.2.9 of TS 23.502 [12], the NSSAA is triggered for an
S-NSSAI requiring Network Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization with
an AAA Server (AAA-S) which may be hosted by the H-PLMN operator or by a third
party which has a business relationship with the H-PLMN. An AAA Proxy (AAA-P)
in the HPLMN may be involved e.g. if the AAA Server belongs to a third party.
This procedure is triggered by the AMF during a Registration procedure when
some Network Slices require Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization,
when AMF determines that Network Slice-Specific Authentication and
Authorization is requires for an S-NSSAI in the current Allowed NSSAI (e.g.
subscription change), or when the AAA Server that authenticated the Network
Slice triggers a re-authentication.
The AMF performs the role of the EAP Authenticator and communicates with the
AAA-S via the Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization Function
(NSSAAF). The NSSAAF undertakes any AAA protocol interworking with the AAA
protocol supported by the AAA-S.
### 5.5.2 Issue and gaps
To support NSSAA feature and corresponding procedures, the operator may
provision and configure following objects and attributes for a network slice,
based on requirement of the network slice, operator policies and network
deployment options:
\- The indication whether the network slice is subject to Network Slice-
Specific Authentication and Authorization.
\- Functions to support NSSAA, e.g. AMF, NSSAAF, AAA servers and Proxy, etc.
\- Credentials for NSSAA (especially when AAA-S is hosted by the H-PLMN
operator).
The management capabilities described above were not supported in existing
3GPP specifications.
## 5.6 Use case -- support network slice protection on N6 interface
### 5.6.1 Description
With network slicing, various types of users/customers can enjoy connectivity
and data processing of mobile networks tailored to their specific requirements
(e.g. latency, throughput, reliability, security, etc.) that adhere to a
Service Level Agreement (SLA). Providing secure inter- and intra- network
slice communication and secure internet access (e.g. prevention of attacks at
the edge of network slices) are major requirements from mobile network
operators (MNOs) or industry verticals. User data access attribute defined in
GSMA GST [15] describes how the network slice should handle the user data
towards data network according to requirement for the network slice. There are
several options, e.g. no access to internet, all data traffic is routed to the
private network through secure tunnel, no access to either internet or private
network. Deploying security function, e.g. firewalls, at the CN edge (e.g. N6
interface) could protect the network slice from the attack from internet. The
network slice with edge protection could be looked like Figure 5.6.1-1.
{width="6.4847222222222225in" height="1.6972222222222222in"}
Figure 5.6.1-1: Example of edge protect for a network slice
### 5.6.2 Issue and gaps
3GPP TS 22.101 [13] defines Flexible Mobile Service Steering (FMSS)
requirements to steer the subscriber\'s traffic to appropriate enablers (e.g.
NAT, antimalware, parental control, Firewall, DDoS protection) in the N6-LAN.
The implementation of the requirements in core network could improve the
user\'s QoE, apply the security control, etc., for the 5G network. Further,
service function chaining (SFC) requirements were defined in clause 6.35 of TS
22.261 [14], which enables operator to define and modify service function
chaining policies for steering traffic, create/modify/delete a service
function, create/configure/control a chain of service functions, etc. The
requirements are for 5G network, which could be applicable to network slice as
well to improve security of a network slice, especially at the N6 interface
towards internet.
However the existing management services (including MnS components A, B, C)
specified in 3GPP cannot support either requirement of protection N6 interface
for a network slice, or FMSS and SFC requirements defined in TS 22.101 [14].
## 5.7 Use case -- management data isolation for different network slice
customers
### 5.7.1 Description
There are different types of data in 5G network, including management data,
signaling data and application data. Management data include business related
data, e.g., charging information, SLA, tenant profile, subscriber data, etc.,
and operation related data, e.g. CM, PM, FM data, log, trace, MDT, QoE,
policy, analytics report, software, etc.
**The data can be in different stages:**
\- At rest, data that is housed on computer data storage (e.g. hard disk, CD,
mobile, etc.) in any digital form (e.g. file, databases, data warehouses,
etc.). e.g. management data stored in central or distributed database, etc.
The data at rest could be \"stolen\" by illegal entities who can gain physical
or digitally access to the device or data storage media. Isolating storage,
access control and data encryption are always employed to protect data at
rest.
\- In transit, data that is moving between nodes over public or private
network. e.g. management data exchanged between customer tool and NSMF,
between digital portal and NSMF/NSSMF/NFMF, between MnF and MnF/NF, etc. The
data in transit could be leaked or tampered by any probe or tap over wire, or
any network nodes in the flow, when it leaves the confines of protected
enclaves, especially when it flows over public network. Security protocols,
e.g. TLS, IPSec, etc., are always applied to isolate and protect data in
transit.
\- In use: active data that is manipulated by an application or process, and
is residing typically in computer random-access memory (RAM), CPU caches, or
CPU registers. e.g. management data used in MDA, etc. Unlike data at rest or
in transit, the data in use is always decrypted to be used by process in most
of operation systems today, therefore it can be stolen through e.g. memory
dump, side channel attack, etc. The data in use could be protect by isolating
applications in different VM or container with trusted host operation system
and hardware.
As data is critical asset of a network slice customer (NSC) for its business
and operation, in GSMA GST, the data of one NSC is always required to isolate
from other NSCs even for the least strict isolation level - service/tenant
isolation.
### 5.7.2 Issue and gaps
Management data isolation is needed in all stages of the data during its
lifecycle to satisfy SLS of network slice customer (NSC, or tenant), security
policies of network slice provider (NSP) and regional/industry regulations.
Different NCSs may have different requirements on data isolation and
protection and a single NSC may also have different data isolation and
protection requirements for different types or stages of data. E.g. A NSC from
public safety may require dedicated MnF to collect and transmit its management
data via IPSec based VPN, while a NSC as media content provider may accept
shared MnF but separated MnS and transport to collect and transmit its PM/FM
data. Another example, for a NSC of vehicle industry, it may require to
separate DB and protect anonymization for its MDT data, while just separate
table for FM/PM data with availability and integrity protection.
The existing 3GPP management system capabilities cannot support management
data isolation for NSCs/tenants described above. Clause 5.3 of the present
document describes a use case to isolate resources, especially managed
resource (e.g. NFs, virtual resource, transport, etc.), of network slice. The
potential requirements in clause 6.2 and possible solution in clause 7.1
propose isolation group and isolation profile to solve slice isolation issue.
However, there are no concrete isolation polices defined in isolation profile
to isolate and protect data, especially management data, for each
NSC/tenant/slice group.
# 6 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management Enhancements
## 6.1 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support
roaming
**\- REQ-ROAM-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
allow a specific S-NSSAI to be used for outbound roaming to a specific PLMN.
**\- REQ-ROAM-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
allow a specific S-NSSAI to be used for inbound roaming from a specific PLMN.
## 6.2 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support
network slice isolation
**\- REQ-ISOL-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
allocate network slice or network slice subnet based on granular isolation
requirements on the network slice.
Note 1: For example, instead of binary sharing/non-sharing indicator, granular
isolation requirements could be multi- levels requirement, such as isolation
attribute specified in GSMA PRD NG.116.
**\- REQ-ISOL-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to,
based on isolation requirements associated with the service profile and slice
profile, group network slices or network slice subnet with same isolation
requirements and isolation level.
**\- REQ-ISOL-3** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support authorized network slice or network slice subnet related management
service consumer to query the available isolation groups for the network slice
or network slice subnet to be deployed.
**\- REQ-ISOL-4** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support authorized network slice related management service consumer to select
the appropriate isolation group for the network slice to be deployed.
Note 2: For example, the authorized network slice or network slice subnet
related management service consumer could be another high privileged
management system or administrator of the NOP.
## 6.3 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support edge
computing
**\- REQ-EDGE-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
allow a ServiceProfile \> (see TS 28.541 [2]) to be extended with
edge computing related service requirements, for the cases where the
corresponding communication service includes one or several edge application
services.
## 6.4 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support
network slice specific authentication
**\- REQ-NSSA-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support NSSAA requirement for a network slice
Note: Refer to GSMA NG.116 [15] for the requirement of Network Slice Specific
Authentication and Authorization (NSSAA).
**\- REQ-NSSA-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support configuring NSSAA indication for a network slice
**\- REQ-NSSA-3** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support provisioning AMF for NSSAA
**\- REQ-NSSA-4** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support provisioning NSSAAF for NSSAA
**\- REQ-NSSA-5** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support provisioning AAA-S and AAA-P for NSSAA
**\- REQ-NSSA-6** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support managing and provisioning NSSAA credentials for network slice
## 6.5 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support
network slice protection on N6 interface
**\- REQ-PROT-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support service level requirement to protect N6 interface of a network slice.
Note 1: The service level requirement to protect N6 interface of a network
slice could be captured in service profile (or SLS) of a network slice.
**\- REQ-PROT-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support translating service level requirement to protect N6 interface of a
network slice to requirements on network slice subnets.
Note 2: For example, the requirements on network slice subnet to protect N6
interface could be captured in a slice profile of a core network slice subnet.
**\- REQ-PROT-3** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support translating requirements of network slice subnet to protect N6
interface to configuration parameters of network functions or security
functions, to facilitate deploying and configuring security function chain to
protect N6 interface for a network slice.
Note 3: The configuration parameters of network functions could be traffic
routing information configured in PCF, SMF or UPF. Please refer PCC rule of
23.503 [16] and related NRM fragment defined in TS 28.541 [2].
Note 4: For example, according to N6 interface protection requirement, a
firewall could be deployed and configured in core network slice subnet to
protect N6 interface of the network slice. 3GPP management system may
coordinate with other systems, e.g. management system defined in NFV or IETF,
for security function deployment and configuration.
## 6.6 Potential requirements for Network Slicing Management to support
management data isolation for different NSCs
**\- REQ-DATA-1** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support management data isolation for different network slice customers or
different network slice groups.
**\- REQ-DATA-2** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support management data isolation in network slice management, network slice
subnet management and network function management layers.
**\- REQ-DATA-3** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support management data isolation when data in collection, in transmission, in
rest and in use.
**\- REQ-DATA-4** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support different isolation and protection requirements for different types of
management data.
**\- REQ-DATA-5** The 3GPP management system should have the capability to
support provisioning of management data isolation policies.
# 7 Possible solutions for Network Slicing Management Enhancements
## 7.1 Possible solutions for network slice isolation
It is proposed to enhance the 5G NRM to support network slice isolation:
\- Define isolation group in NRM to represent a group of network
slices/network slice subnets sharing same isolation requirements and
resources. The group can be based on tenant, SST, region, security level, etc.
\- Define isolation profile in NRM to represent a set of isolation
requirements.
\- Associate a network slice/network slice subnet to an isolation group.
\- Associate an isolation group to an isolation profile.
\- Isolation requirements, associated with service profiles and slice profile,
are used to guide the allocation of network slices and network slice subnets.
Figure 7.1-1: NRM fragment proposal for network slice isolation
Figure 7.1-2: NRM fragment proposal for network slice subnet isolation
## 7.2 Possible solutions for network slice using multiple networks scenario 1
-- RAN sharing
### 7.2.1 Alternative 1: solution based on Network Slice as a Service
#### 7.2.1.1 Description
This clause describes how the existing concept of Network Slice as a Service
may be used to allow Company-NA to manage a network slice service which is
provided by Company-NB.
Company-NA sends a request to Company-NB BSS for Network Slice as a Service
(NSaaS) to satisfy the requirements for RAN coverage. When receiving request
for RAN coverage service, Company-NB BSS can issue a corresponding allocateNsi
request to its own 3GPP management system.
The allocateNsi request contains the parameters to create a ServiceProfile for
RAN based on service parameters received from Company-NA, also taking into
account any existing agreements. The pLMNInfoList of the ServiceProfile will
capture PLMN ID of NOP-A as well as S-NSSAI within that PLMN selected by
Company-NA/NOP-A. If successful, relevant and needed identifiers associated
with the provided service are returned to Company-NA. Company-NA/NOP-A can
then include this information as part of network slice representation in its
own management system. This high-level ordering and provisioning procedure is
illustrated in figure 7.2.1.1-1.
NOTE: The NetworkSlice instance allocated in NOP-B\'s management system can be
newly created or an existing instance can be used following procedure for
allocateNsi, see TS 28.531 [3] clause 6.5.1 and clause 7.2.
Figure 7.2.1.1-1: Alt 1 Provisioning phase
For basic support of the RAN sharing use case, it is not necessary for
Company-NB to expose any capabilities beyond service lifecycle operations. But
based on agreement, Company-NB may expose additional management capabilities
in provisioning or monitoring areas. This is illustrated in figure 7.2.1.1-2.
Such exposure should be setup to ensure that only capabilities related to the
service provided to Company-NA are exposed. And if any provisioning operations
are allowed, these cannot interfere with use of network resources by other
users.
Figure 7.2.1.1-2: Alt 1 Operation phase
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view operationalState or
administrativeState of the NetworkSlice instance, Company-NB may allow
Company-NA to interact with the BSS, the BSS (acting as a Provisioning MnS
consumer)needs to have read access to the NetworkSlice MOI via the
getMOIAttributes operation, defined in TS 28.532 [5].
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to control the adminstrativeState of
the NetworkSlice instance, Company-NB\'s BSS may allow Company-NA to interact
with the BSS, the BSS (acting as a Provisioning MnS consumer) needs to have
write access to the NetworkSlice MOI via the modifyMOIAttributes operation,
defined in TS 28.532 [5].
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view alarms related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management capabilities
corresponding to the \"FS Data Report for NSI\" Service, as described in TS
28.545 [6]. Company-NB should only allow operations by Company-NA that are
within scope of the provided RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to manage alarms related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management capabilities
corresponding to the \"FS Control for NSI\" Service, as described in TS 28.545
[6]. Company-NB should only allow operations by Company-NA that are within
scope of the provided RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view performance measurements
related to the RAN coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management
capabilities corresponding to the operations and notifications described in TS
28.550 [7]. Company-NB should only expose measurements related to the S-NSSAI
of the ServiceProfile associated with the RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view KPIs related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose the KPIs as described in TS
28.554 [8]. Company-NB should only expose KPIs related to the S-NSSAI of the
ServiceProfile associated with the RAN service.
#### 7.2.1.2 Modelling options
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Overview
This solution proposes that the E2E network slice in Company-NA\'s management
system should have a reference to the consumed NSaaS. The BSS of Company-NB
maps this association to the RAN network slice.
Figure 7.2.1.2.1-1 shows a scenario where Company-NA consumes NSaaS from
Company-NB and wishes to build a relation from networkSlice-A in Company-NA
Management System to Company-NB Network Management System (via Company-NB
Service Ordering).
Figure 7.2.1.2.1-1: Scenario of NSaaS consumption
In this case, the Company-NA Management System needs a management view to
represent the consumed service:
\- The identity of the consumed service
\- The status of the consumed service
\- The applicable requirements for the consumed service
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Alternative 1A: solution based on the existing NetworkSlice
IOC
This alternative proposes to use an existing NetworkSlice IOC to represent the
consumed NSaaS.
Figure 7.2.1.2.2-1: Alt 1A Modelling of NSaaS consumption
However, the current definition of NetworkSlice definition includes a
mandatory reference to a NetworkSliceSubnet IOC, which is intended to
represent the resource view of the network slice. In this case, the NSC may
not be allowed to have any knowledge of the NSP resources, therefore the
reference to a NetworkSliceSubnet IOC is invalid. A possible solution is to
make optional the reference to a NetworkSliceSubnet IOC.
This proposed solution may cause confusion because the same IOC is used to
represent a network slice which is managed by the 3GPP Management System and
also to represent a network slice which is managed by an external 3GPP
Management System. In these two cases, the allowed management actions on the
IOC are very different.
##### 7.2.1.2.3 Alternative 1B: solution based on new ExternalNetworkSlice IOC
This alternative proposes to create a new ExternalNetworkSlice IOC to
represent the consumed NSaaS. This is similar in style to the External _xxx_
Function IOCs and External _xxx_ Cell IOCs in TS 28.541 [2] which are used to
represent network functions and cells that are managed by another party.
Figure 7.2.1.2.3-1: Alt 1B Modelling of NSaaS consumption
This proposed solution has the advantage that it clearly separates the
representation of a network slice which is managed by the 3GPP Management
System from the representation of a network slice which is managed by an
external 3GPP Management System.
### 7.2.2 Alternative 2: solution based on Network Slice Subnet as a Service
#### 7.2.2.1 Description
This clause describes how a new concept of Network Slice Subnet as a Service
may be used to allow Company-NA to manage a network slice subnet service which
is provided by Company-NB.
When receiving request for RAN coverage service, Company-NB BSS can issue a
corresponding allocateNssi request to its own 3GPP management system with
SliceProfile for RAN based on based on parameters received from Company-NA,
also taking into account any existing agreements. The pLMNInfoList of the
SliceProfile will capture PLMN ID of NOP-A as well as S-NSSAI within that PLMN
selected by Company-NA/NOP-A. If successful, relevant and needed identifiers
associated with the provided service are returned to Company-NA. Company-
NA/NOP-A can then include this information as part of network slice
representation in its own management system. This high-level ordering and
provisioning procedure is illustrated in figure 7.2.2.1-1.
NOTE: The NetworkSliceSubnet instance allocated in NOP-B\'s management system
can be newly created or an existing instance can be used following procedure
for allocateNssi, see TS 28.531 [3] clause 6.5.2 and clause 7.3. Compared to
use cases without sharing, it is possible that for some NetworkSliceSubnet
instances there will be no reference from other NetworkSliceSubnet instance or
indirectly any NetworkSlice instance within NOP-B\'s management system.
Figure 7.2.2.1-1: Alt 2 Provisioning phase
For basic support of the RAN sharing use case, it is not necessary for
Company-NB to expose any capabilities beyond service lifecycle operations. But
based on agreement Company-NB may expose additional management capabilities in
provisioning or monitoring areas. This is illustrated in figure 7.2.2.1-2.
Such exposure should be setup to ensure that only capabilities related to the
service provided to Company-NA are exposed. And if any provisioning operations
are allowed, these cannot interfere with use of network resources by other
users.
Figure 7.2.2.1-2 Alt 2 Operation phase
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view operationalState or
administrativeState of the NetworkSliceSubnet instance, Company-NB may allow
Company-NA to interact with the BSS, the BSS (acting as a Provisioning MnS
consumer) needs to have read access to the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI via the
getMOIAttributes operation, defined in TS 28.532 [5].
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to control the adminstrativeState of
the NetworkSliceSubnet instance, Company-NB\'s BSS may allow Company-NA to
interact with the BSS, the BSS (acting as a Provisioning MnS consumer) needs
to have write access to the NetworkSliceSubnet MOI via the modifyMOIAttributes
operation, defined in TS 28.532 [5].
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view alarms related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management capabilities
corresponding to the \"FS Data Report for NSSI\" Service, as described in TS
28.545 [6]. Company-NB should only allow operations by Company-NA that are
within scope of the provided RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to manage alarms related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management capabilities
corresponding to the \"FS Control for NSSI\" Service, as described in TS
28.545 [6]. Company-NB should only allow operations by Company-NA that are
within scope of the provided RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view performance measurements
related to the RAN coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose management
capabilities corresponding to the operations and notifications described in TS
28.550 [7]. Company-NB should only expose measurements related to the S-NSSAI
of the SliceProfile associated with the RAN service.
If Company-NB wishes to allow Company-NA to view KPIs related to the RAN
coverage service, Company-NB\'s BSS may expose the KPIs as described in TS
28.554 [8]. Company-NB should only expose KPIs related to the
NetworkSliceSubnet instance or KPIs related to the S-NSSAI of the SliceProfile
associated with the RAN service.
#### 7.2.2.2 Modelling options
##### 7.2.2.2.1 Overview
This solution proposes that the E2E network slice subnet in Company-NA\'s
management system should have a reference to the consumed NSSaaS. The BSS of
Company-NB maps this association to the RAN network slice subnet.
Figure 7.2.2.2.1-1 shows a scenario where Company-NA consumes NSSaaS from
Company-NB and wishes to build a relation from networkSlice-A in Company-NA
Management System to Company-NB Network Management System (via Company-NB
Service Ordering).
Figure 7.2.2.2.1-1: Scenario of NSSaaS consumption
In this case, the Company-NA Management System needs a management view to
represent the consumed service:
\- The identity of the consumed service
\- The status of the consumed service
\- The applicable requirements for the consumed service
##### 7.2.2.2.2 Alternative 2A: solution based on the existing
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC
This alternative proposes to use an existing NetworkSliceSubnet IOC to
represent the consumed NSSaaS.
Figure 7.2.2.2.2-1: Alt 2A Modelling of NSSaaS consumption
This proposed solution may cause confusion because the same IOC is used to
represent a network slice subnet which is managed by the 3GPP Management
System and also to represent a network slice subnet which is managed by an
external 3GPP Management System. In these two cases, the allowed management
actions on the IOC are very different.
##### 7.2.2.2.3 Alternative 2B: solution based on new
ExternalNetworkSliceSubnet IOC
This alternative proposes to create a new ExternalNetworkSliceSubnet IOC to
represent the consumed NSSaaS. This is similar in style to the External _xxx_
Function IOCs and External _xxx_ Cell IOCs in TS 28.541 [2] which are used to
represent network functions and cells that are managed by another party.
Figure 7.2.2.2.3-1: Alt 2B Modelling of NSSaaS consumption
This proposed solution has the advantage that it clearly separates the
representation of a network slice subnet which is managed by the 3GPP
Management System from the representation of a network slice subnet which is
managed by an external 3GPP Management System.
### 7.2.3 Solution analysis
#### 7.2.3.1 Overview
One of the main differences between the described solution alternatives is
whether the RAN coverage service is mapped in Company-NB systems to a
NetworkSlice and ServiceProfile or NetworkSliceSubnet and SliceProfile. The
chosen approach will have impact on a number of areas:
\- Network slicing concepts and terminology
\- NRM used to represent network slices and slice constituents in both
Company-NA and Company-NB management systems
Below the main alternatives are compared in these areas followed by a summary
and conclusions.
#### 7.2.3.2 Concepts and Terminology Impact
##### 7.2.3.2.1 Basic definitions
The basic definitions for network slicing are found in TS 28.530 [4] clause
3.1.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice:
\- The definition of **network slice** in TS 28.530 [4] includes the following
note: _NOTE 2: Represent network slice defined in TS 23.501 [3] with added
service properties._ The specification TS 23.501 [1] mentioned here is
produced by the SA2 WG, thus this note and reference ensures that the network
slice definition remains consistent across 3GPP WGs. Looking further at TS
23.501 [1], the following is stated in clause 5.15.1: _A Network Slice
instance is defined within a PLMN and shall include: - the Core Network
Control Plane and User Plane Network Functions, as described in clause 4.2,
[...]_. Thus according to definition in the present document a network slice
cannot consist only of a RAN part. So for the solution alternative with RAN
service based on network slice, the impact is very significant since it means
alignment with other WGs for basic definitions is no longer maintained, and
the corresponding reference needs to be removed from TS 28.530 [4]. This is
also likely to cause confusion for readers of the specifications.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice subnet:
\- The use of network slice subnet should not introduce any conflicts with
respect to definitions, since in single operator scenario the RAN part is
already considered a network slice subnet.
##### 7.2.3.2.2 Service provider terminology
Currently NSaaS is defined as concept for providing a network slice as a
service, see TS 28.530 [4] clause 4.1.6. A communication service provider
supporting NSaaS in turn may be referred to as NSP, see TS 28.530 [4] clause
4.8.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice:
\- No or minor impact, the current NSaaS and NSP concepts can still be used.
However, meaning of NSaaS will vary depending on scenario.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice subnet:
\- For this alternative, it is necessary to introduce and describe concept of
NSSaaS in TS 28.530 [4]. NSaaS would be kept as concept for scenario where e2e
network slice is provided as a service. If NSSaaS is added, the NSP role
should also be updated to reflect that it refers to provider of either NSaaS
or NSSaaS communication service. Alternatively, addition of separate NSSP role
could also be considered.
#### 7.2.3.3 NRM Impact
##### 7.2.3.3.1 Model in Company-NB management system
Note: When discussing use of ServiceProfile or SliceProfile below to provide
input requirements, in both alternatives the profiles are assumed to be
internal to Company-NB. Thus the set of attributes exchanged on the external
interface between companies might not be identical. The detailed specification
of APIs as well as attributes and allowed values are out of scope for 3GPP to
specify and will also depend on business agreements.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice:
\- Object Model: The object hierarchy would include a NetworkSlice instance
referencing a top NetworkSliceSubnet instance. But the NetworkSlice instance
would not actually represent an entire e2e network slice in this case. This
does not match definition of NetworkSlice instance in TS 28.530 [4] clause 3.1
which is directly connected to the network slice definition. Thus use of
NetworkSlice IOC as well requires breaking alignment with other WGs fpr basic
definitions.
\- Profile attributes: Use of network slice would mean use of ServiceProfile
to provide input requirements. But the ServiceProfile is currently not
suitable for expressing RAN only requirements. Attributes are expected to
express e2e requirements. See descriptions as well as use of sources such as
GSMA GST and TS 22.261 [14]. One example is the latency attribute which
describes latency as combination of latency from multiple domains. In
addition, if the ServiceProfile would not always represent e2e requirements,
it would likely be needed to define a mechanism for a consumer to specify what
a particular ServiceProfile actually presents, e g e2e or RAN.
Impact if RAN service is based on network slice subnet:
\- Object Model: The RAN service would have a corresponding SliceProfile
supported by an allocated NetworkSliceSubnet instance. But unless the subnet
instance is shared, there would not be any NetworkSlice or top
NetworkSliceSubnet instance in Company-NB/NOP-B\'s 3GPP management system
referring to the RAN NetworkSliceSubnet instance. But this can be considered
aligned with fact that Company-NA is responsible for the e2e network slice in
this scenario. (Though due to being provided as abstracted RAN service, there
would not be any direct references from Company-NA management system either.)
The relationship diagram in TS 28.541 [2] clause 6.2.1 already allows a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance to exist without being referred to by any other
NetworkSliceSubnet, and this is already needed e g for top slice subnets. An
existing problem which is not unique to the multi-operator scenario is that
according to the relationship diagram all NetworkSliceSubnet instances have a
direct reference from a NetworkSlice instance which is not correct. So this
error should in any case be addressed.
\- Profile attributes: Use of network slice subnet would mean use of
ServiceProfile to provide input requirements. SliceProfile can already be used
to specify RAN-level requirements. The consumer also provides PLMN ID and
S-NSSAI as input which is needed for this use case. In summary no impact on
SliceProfile has yet been identified.
##### 7.2.3.3.2 Model in Company-NA management system
If Company-NA wants to represent the RAN service obtained from Company-NB in
its own management system, the current slice NRM cannot be used directly. The
reason is that what is visible to Company-NA is the RAN service, while the NRM
object instances in Company-NB\'s management system are in general not
directly visible or accessible. So to support this scenario, the slice NRM
would have to be updated to support also references to externally provided
services when used as network slice constituents. While the modelling might be
slightly different depending on solution alternative, the impact should be
similar.
#### 7.2.3.4 Summary and conclusions
Based on analysis above, a solution is recommended where the RAN coverage
service is mapped in Company-NB to a NetworkSliceSubnet instance and
SliceProfile. The main reason is to ensure that the definition of network
slice remains aligned across 3GPP WGs. This is also important to avoid
confusion for specification readers and implementers. It is also believed that
the impact on the slice NRM is smaller, since the SliceProfile datatype is
already able to represent RAN only requirements.
In line with recommendation above it is additionally proposed to introduce the
concept of NSSaaS and make corresponding updates mainly in TS 28.530 [4].
## 7.3 Possible solutions for network slice using multiple networks scenario 2
-- national roaming
When receiving request for inbound roaming for network slice, CSP-B can issue
an AllocateNsi request (see AllocateNsi operation defined in clause 6.5.1 in
TS 28.531 [4]) to ask to allocate a NetworkSlice instance to fullfil its
network slice related requirements.
Considering that CSP-A has a national roaming agreement with CSP-B to allow
subscribers of CSP-A to roam into CSP-B.
Allocation request might include S-NSSAI(s) from HPLMN in order for NOP-B to
configure the mapping of S-NSSAI(s), Assuming that VPLMN and HPLMN have an SLA
to support non-standard S-NSSAI values in the VPLMN as stated in TS 23.501
[1].
## 7.4 Possible solutions for network slice specific authentication
It is proposed to enhance the 5G NRM to support network slice specific
authentication:
\- Add NSSAA related requirements in ServiceProfile and SliceProfile for CN.
\- Add NSSAA related parameter in AMFFunction IOC.
\- Add new IOCs to support NSSAAF, AAA-S and AAA-P.
## 7.5 Possible solutions for network slice protection on N6 interface
It is proposed to enhance the 5G NRM to support network slice protection on N6
interface:
\- Add an **optional** new attribute for N6 interface protection requirement
in ServiceProfile and CNSliceSubnetProfile for CN. The attribute includes
required security functions and corresponding rules of each function. E.g. the
dataType of the attribute could be defined as following:
\- N6Protection \>:
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isWritable multiplex Description
* * *
servAttrCom CM T 1 Only valid when the attribute is in ServiceProfile secFuncs
M T 1..* List of security control functions/features required by the
slice/slice subnet consumer. E.g. Fireware, NAT, antimalware, parental
control, DDoS protection function, etc.
> Each security function could be defined as:
>
> SecFunc \>:
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isWritable multiplex Description
* * *
secFunId M F 1 Identifier a security function secFunType M F 1 Type of the
security function secRules O T 0..* security rules could be configured on each
function. If it is absent, the default rules could be applied
Note: secRules could be configured via NSMS_P by a NSMS_C (e.g. a digital
portal of an operator on behalf of an administrator), Similarly, NSMS_P could
pass through the configured rules to NSSMS_P. Then out scope of 3GPP, NSSMS_P
may configure rules on the security functions through SFC framework defined in
IETF or MANO defined in ETSI NFV.
\- Enhance PCC rules associated to PCFFunction or SMFFunction IOC to support
routing traffic to security function on N6 interface. e.g. extend
PredefinedPccRuleSet IOC (add an optional sNSSAIList attribute in the IOC
definition) to support per slice (or list of slices) PCC rule list, or extend
PccRule dataType (add an optional sNSSAIList attribute in the dataType
definition) to support per slice (or list of slices) PCC rule which including
traffic steering rules, or extend TrafficControlData dataType directly (add an
optional sNSSAIList attribute in the dataType definition) to support per slice
(or list of slices) traffic steering policies/rules.
{width="6.6875in" height="3.2118055555555554in"}
Figure 7.5.1: Example workflow to deploy a network slice for a NSC with N6
protection requirement
Note: How to deploy and configure security function is out of scope of 3GPP.
## 7.6 Possible solutions for management data isolation for different NSCs
It is proposed to enhance the 5G NRM to support management data isolation for
different NSCs/Tenants/Slice Groups. The management data isolation policies
are defined in following table. It could be part of isolation profile, in this
case the groupId is same to id of isolation group the isolation profile
associates to. It could be part of service/slice profile, in this case,
groupId is not needed.
Table 7.6-1: Data isolation policy
Attribute Name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable
* * *
groupId O T F T T dataTypeList M T T F T dataClass M T T F T dataStage O T T F
T analyticType O T T F T isolationRule M T T F T protectionReq M T T F T
\- groupId is used to identify a group of slices.
Note 1: The group can be organized for a specific tenant, specific service
type, specific region, etc.
\- dataTypeList is used to categorize the data to different types,
Note 2: dataType could be, e.g. CM, PM, FM, MDT, QoE, trace data, etc.
\- dataClass is used to define the classification of the management data in
the dataTypeList.
Note 3: dataClass could be, e.g. secret, confidential, business sensitive,
normal, etc.
\- dataStage is used to define the stage/phase of the data,
Note 4: dataStage could be, e.g. data in use, in transit, at rest, etc.
\- analyticType is used to define the usage of the analytics function which
takes the management data as input and output.
Note 5: E.g. the analytics function could be used by operator for business
promotion, performance optimization or trouble shooting, etc. or by tenant for
trouble shooting, etc. It is optional
\- isolationRule is defined to isolate the data of a tenant/group for specific
data types, and optionally in specific data stages.
Note 6: The isolationRule could be described as that dedicated DB allocated to
the data. The data is MDT and QoE data (data types) in the rest (data stage)
of tenant-1/slice group-1 (tenant/group).
\- protectionReq is used to decide the security control to protect the
isolated data of a tenant/group for specific data types, and optionally in
specific data stages.
Note 7: ProtectionReq could be e.g. integration protect, confidentiality
protect, privacy protect, etc. The technologies used for the protection is
implementation dependent.
With the extended NRM, specific management function/service and corresponding
transport, storage/DB/table and analytics function may be allocated to an
NSC/tenant/group, isolated and protected according to data isolation policies
of the tenant/slice group. See figure 7.6-1 for isolation of management data
at rest, in transit and in use.
{width="6.698611111111111in" height="3.8180555555555555in"}
Figure 7.6-1: isolation of management data of different NSCs/tenants/groups
An example procedure for management data isolation:
{width="6.69375in" height="2.0909722222222222in"}
Figure 7.6-2: example workflow for management data isolation
1\. Through management portal or other tool, operator administrator creates an
isolation group for a network slice customer, associates an isolation profile
to the group, and defines management data isolation policies for the group for
an NSC/tenant.
2\. A network slice producer, e.g. NSMF, may call management service provided
by network slice subnet producer, e.g. NSSMF, to create corresponding network
slice subnet group, translate the isolation profile and policies accordingly
if needed, and attach the corresponding isolation profile to the network slice
subnet group.
3\. An administrator or MnS producer, e.g. NSMF or NSSMF, may trigger to
create dedicated monitoring MnSs, even MnS producer, for the network slice
(subnet) group to collect monitoring data, e.g. PM, FM data, according to
management data isolation policies in the isolation profile associated to the
group.
4\. The common or dedicated monitoring MnS producer may subscribe to PM, FM or
other data notification which belong to the network slices of the group.
5\. After the monitoring MnS producer received monitoring data, it allocates
storage/database for the data if needed, associates the storage/database to
the network slice (subnet) group, isolate and protect the storage according to
management data isolation policy defined in the isolation profile for the
group.
6\. The monitoring MnS producer may send the collected management data to
authorized MnS consumer (the MnS consumer could be another MnS producer, e.g.
an analytics function deployed by the operator, or the MnS consumer could be
acting on behalf of a tenant) through common or dedicated MnSs (and
corresponding transport network), protect the MnSs and transports based on
management data isolation policies in the isolation profile associated to the
group.
# 8 Conclusions and recommendations
8.1 Conclusions
The following issues are identified in the present document:
\- Depending on agreements between Network Operators, one Network Operator may
expose management capabilities to the other Network Operator. This issue is in
the scope of Work Item FS_NSCE.
\- The network slice NRM in TS 28.541 [2] needs to be updated:
\- To allow use of NetworkSliceSubnet to realize a network slice subnet as a
service.
\- To support modelling of external network slice constituents.
\- The concepts clause (4.1) in TS 28.530 [4] needs to be updated and extended
with NSSaaS, and role descriptions in clause 4.8 needs be updated to cover
both NSaaS or NSSaaS.
\- There is a need to correct any usage of network slice or NetworkSlice
instance that is not consistent with definitions in TS 28.530 [4] clause 3.1
or TS 23.501 [1], focusing primarily on TS 28.530 [4] and TS 28.531 [3].
\- The Network Resource Model defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be updated to
support granular isolation requirements on the network slice.
\- The Network Resource Model defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be updated to
support grouping of network slices with same isolation requirements and
security level.
\- NRM for Edge Configuration Server should include S-NSSAI for the edge
application service. This issue is in the scope of Work Item FS_Eedge_Mgt.
\- The NetworkSlice IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be updated to support
service level edge protection requirements.
\- The NetworkSlice IOC defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be updated to support
Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization (NSSAA) requirements.
\- The Information model definitions for network slice NRM ServiceProfile
defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be extended to support S-NSSAI mapping for
National Roaming scenario.
\- The Information model definitions for network slice NRM
CNSliceSubnetProfile defined in TS 28.541 [2] should be extended to support
S-NSSAI mapping for National Roaming scenario.
8.2 Recommendations
The improvements to the Network Resource Model (as described in clause 7) are
not currently in the scope of any existing Work Item. It is proposed that the
scope of existing Work Item adNRM should be extended to add the following
issues:
\- Support use of NetworkSliceSubnet to realize a network slice subnet as a
service.
\- Support modelling of external network slice constituents.
\- Improved isolation for a network slice.
\- Grouping of network slices.
\- Support for service level edge protection requirements.
\- Support for Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization (NSSAA)
requirements.
\- Support for S-NSSAI mapping for National Roaming.
Needed updates related to concepts and use of new and existing concepts
originally identified in the network slicing RAN sharing scenario (clauses 5.1
and 7.2) and as also described in conclusions (clause 8.1) are not currently
in scope of any work item. It is proposed to make the following updates as
part of Work Item MANS:
\- Introduction of NSSaaS concept and update of roles in TS 28.530 [4].
\- Updates related to any usage of network slice or NetworkSlice instance in
TS 28.530 [4] or TS 28.531 [3] that is not consistent with current
definitions.
#