# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies access control for management services produced
by 3GPP management system.
The document investigates use cases related to access control, proposed
requirements on 3GPP management system and possible solutions to support
access control.
The document also provides recommendation for the normative specifications
work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"5G Network Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.623: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[7] NIST Special Publication 800-39 (2011): \"Managing Information Security
Risk\".
[8] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
Security; Security and Trust Guidance\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Internal MnS consumer :** It is a digital tool owned by the operator who
provides the 3GPP management system and network.
**External MnS consumer :** It is a digital tool owned by the vertical
customer and deployed outside of data centre of the operator.
**Digital tool :** It is a machine to access MnS (which is always machine-
faced-interface), which can be e.g., digital portal, digital frontend, another
management tool, management function, network function, application, client,
etc.
**Internal user of 3GPP management system :** It is a human working for the
operator, e.g. an administrator of the operator, who operates on the 3GPP
management system through a portal for provisioning and monitoring the 3GPP
network.
**External user of 3GPP management system :** It is a human working for a
customer of the operator, e.g. an administrator of the customer of the
operator, who operates on the 3GPP management system through a portal/store
front for monitoring and optionally provisioning the 3GPP network allocated to
the customer.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ANS Authentication Service
ARS Authorization Service
ANS Audit Service
# 4 Concepts and overview
## 4.1 Overview
Service based architecture of 3GPP management system enables a management
service (MnS) consumer to access and utilize capabilities of a MnS producer to
provision or monitor logical networks, services or resources allocated to the
consumer. 3GPP management system is built on multiple management domains (see
[3]). There are interactions between external entities and the 3GPP management
system, between management functions (MnFs) of different management domains,
or between MnFs in the same management domain.
Without access control for management services/interface, an attacker may gain
access to capabilities of the 3GPP management system to exhaust the network
resources and potentially bring down the networks and services. Attackers may
also modify the configuration of other customers\' networks and resources to
fail their SLA. In addition, attackers could intercept management data of
other customers and infer the competitor\'s business secrete and damage
reputation of the management service provider. Therefore, access control for
protecting MnSs provided by 3GPP management system is essential for service
and network management and orchestration, especially in commercial environment
where the network resource and management capabilities are shared by multiple
consumers/tenants.
The present document will investigate use cases related access control for the
3GPP management system, raise potential capability requirement for 3GPP
management system and propose solutions to solve the issues. Access from
external machine entities, between machine entities of same or different
management domains, as well as from machine entities on behalf of human users
will be considered in the present document.
## 4.2 Concept
### 4.2.1 Access control
Access control in 3GPP management system represents the set of features and
procedures that allow controlling how management service consumer and
management service producer communicate and interact with each other, hence
protect the 3GPP management system and managed services as well as resources
from unauthorized access.
Access control component(s) could determine the level of authorization of a
consumer after an authentication procedure has successfully completed. In
addition, access control component(s) could track the access activities of a
consumer to enforce accountability for the consumer\'s actions.
### 4.2.2 Authentication
Authentication in 3GPP management system represents the set of security
features and procedures that allow proving a management service consumer or
producer is what it claims to be, based on its identity and one or more of the
three factors: something a consumer/producer knows (e.g. password), something
a consumer/producer has (e.g. ID badge, cryptographic key/token), something a
consumer/producer is (e.g. fingerprint or other biometric data),
### 4.2.3 Authorization
Authorization in 3GPP management system represents the set of features and
procedures that allow ensuring an authenticated management service consumer
has the corresponding access rights to services/resources related to location,
time and reasons.
# 5 Use cases for access control for management service
## 5.1 use case -- MnS is accessed by a digital portal of the operator
### 5.1.1 Description
On behalf of an internal or external user of a 3GPP management system, a
digital portal/store front of an operator could access MnSs produced by the
3GPP management system of the operator to provision and monitor the network of
the operator. There are several example scenarios.
Scenario 1: An administrator of the operator creates/delete/update a network
from the digital portal, that triggered the portal (acting as MnS consumer)
calling MnSs to create/delete/update subnetwork.
Scenario 2: An administrator of the operator\'s customer collects faults of a
network slice (allocated to the customer) from a digital portal/store front,
that triggered the digital portal/store front (acting as MnS consumer) calling
MnS to subscribe and get alarms the network slice.
Scenario 3: The operator or its customer could have multiple administrators
with different privileges to support separation of duties.
### 5.1.2 Issue and gaps
##### Potential security issues: {#potential-security-issues .H6}
Without proper access control, the administrator of the operator or its
customer could mis-operate on the network/network slice deliberately or
accidently. e.g. an external customer of an operator could delete a network of
the operator, which is serving multiple customers, that could cause outage of
services. Another example is an external customer of an operator could receive
detail performance data, e.g. all measurements of a network slice, which was
not part of SLA between the operator and customer. In addition, a malicious
user could fake the legal user to perform attacks, e.g. spoofing, man-in-the-
middle, etc., that could cause availability and confidentiality compromising.
Further, the malicious entity cannot be identified without tracking and
auditing the access activities of the consumer.
Therefore, access control, including identification, authentication,
authorization and auditing, on a digital portal/store front, as internal MnS
consumer and on behalf of human user of 3GPP management system, is required to
protect the MnSs and corresponding managed resources from unauthorized reading
and writing. In addition, mutual authentication between digital portal/store
front and MnS producer, both being digital tools, is required to avoid
credential or other information leaking and damage because of fake digital
portal/store front or MnS producer.
##### Gap: {#gap .H6}
Identification of MnS producer, digital portal/store front as internal MnS
consumer, and internal /external user of the 3GPP management system (who would
indirectly access MnS of the 3GPP management system through digital
portal/store front), is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authentication between MnS producer and digital portal/store front (acting as
internal MnS consumer) is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authorization of a digital portal/store front (acting as internal MnS
consumer) on behalf of human user of the 3GPP management system is not
supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Note: Generally digital portal/store front could support authentication of
internal/external user of the 3GPP management system but always need to
interact with 3GPP management system for granular authorization of the user,
as authorization is highly depends on business logic of the 3GPP management
system.
Tracking and audit the activities/behaviours of digital portal/store front as
an internal MnS consumer or internal/external user of the 3GPP management
system is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.2 Use case -- MnS is accessed by an external consumer of the 3GPP
management system
### 5.2.1 Description
A vertical customer may utilize service provided by an operator to build their
own E2E service, therefore a management tool of the vertical customer, which
is in the data centre of the vertical, could access 3GPP management system of
the operator to provision and monitor services offered by the operator. E.g.
An application/management tool of a vertical could call MnSs provided by an
operator to create/delete/update a network slice and monitor performance and
fault of the network slice.
NOTE: In this case, only one administrator of a vertical is bound to an
external tool provided by the vertical in the same time.
### 5.2.2 Issue and gaps
Potential security issues:
Without proper access control on the external tools/applications which access
the MnS of 3GPP system, attacker could utilize fraudulent tool to perform
attacks, e.g. man-in-the-middle, DDoS, etc., that could cause availability and
confidentiality compromising. Further, the malicious entity cannot be
identified without tracking and auditing the access activities of the
consumer.
Therefore, access control, including identification, authentication,
authorization and auditing, on an external MnS consumer is required to protect
the MnSs and corresponding managed resources from unauthorized reading and
writing. In addition, mutual authentication between external MnS consumer and
MnS producer is required to avoid credential or other information leaking and
damage because of fake MnS consumer or MnS producer.
In addition, as the tool/application acting as external MnS consumer is not in
the data centre of operator, which can be in vertical data centre or any other
location, and the functionality of the tool could be out the scope of 3GPP,
the security position of the tool can be dynamic and unexpectable. Therefore,
stronger, more flexible and adaptive access control are required to adapt the
context change of the tools as the external MnS consumer.
Gap:
Identification of MnS producer and external MnS consumer is not supported in
existing 3GPP management system.
Authentication between MnS producer and external MnS consumer is not supported
in existing 3GPP management system.
Authorization of an external MnS consumer on behalf of administrator of a
vertical, is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Tracking and audit the activities/behaviours of an external MnS consumer is
not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.3 Use case -- MnS is accessed by a consumer in the same domain of the
3GPP management system
### 5.3.1 Description
A digital tool, acting as a MnS consumer, could access MnSs produced by a MnS
producer in the same management domain of an operator to perform different
tasks. E.g. Decision entity in network slice management domain may access
analytics entity in the same domain to get analytics report for better
decision.
NOTE: The MnS consumer discussed in this case is management function/entity
complied with 3GPP specifications
### 5.3.2 Issue and gaps
Potential security issues:
Without proper access control between tools in the same management domain, the
management function with low sensitive level could access MnS labelled as
sensitive that compromised confidentiality of the system, e.g. discovery
management function accesses sensitive data exposed by data MnS would possibly
leak sensitive trace/MDT data to less protected entity. In addition, man-in-
the-middle attack could be performed between two management functions/entities
without mutual authentication between them.
Therefore, access control, including identification, authentication,
authorization and auditing, on a MnS consumer of same management domain is
required to protect the MnSs and corresponding managed resources from
unauthorized reading and writing. In addition, mutual authentication between
MnS consumer and MnS producer in same domain is required to avoid credential
or other information leaking and damage because of fake MnS consumer or MnS
producer.
Gap:
Identification of MnS producer and MnS consumer in same management domain is
not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authentication between MnS producer and MnS consumer in same management domain
is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authorization of MnS consumer in same management domain is not supported in
existing 3GPP management system.
Tracking and audit the activities/behaviours of a MnS consumer in same
management domain is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.4 Use case -- MnS is accessed by a consumer in the different domain of
the 3GPP management system
### 5.4.1 Description
A digital tool in data centre of an operator, acting as a MnS consumer, could
access MnSs produced by a MnS producer in another management domain of a same
or different operator to provision and monitor network or resources. E.g. NSMF
could create/delete/update RAN and/or network slice subnet through MnSs
provided in RAN and/or CN domain(s) and monitor performance and fault of the
network slice through network slice subnet MnSs of the domain(s).
The management functions/entities in one management domain have different
functionalities, then different privileges to access the MnSs of other
domains. E.g. Execution entity in network slice management domain may have
permission to create/delete/update network slice subnet in RAN/CN domain,
while analytics entity in network slice management domain may have permission
to collect performance, trace and alarm data from RAN/CN domain, and discovery
management entity may have no rights to access any MnS of RAN/CN domain.
NOTE: The MnS consumer discussed in this case is management function/entity
complied with 3GPP specification
### 5.4.2 Issue and gaps
Potential security issues:
Without proper access control between tools of 3GPP system, attacker could
utilize fraudulent tool to perform attacks, e.g. man-in-the-middle, DDoS,
etc., that could cause availability and confidentiality compromising. Further,
the malicious entity cannot be identified without tracking and auditing the
access activities of the consumer. In addition, without proper authorization,
tools with least privilege could mis-operate on critical resource and cause
outage of system.
Therefore, access control, including identification, authentication,
authorization and auditing, on a MnS consumer of another management domain is
required to protect the MnSs and corresponding managed resources from
unauthorized reading and writing. In addition, mutual authentication between
MnS consumer and MnS producer in different domain is required to avoid
credential or other information leaking and damage because of fake MnS
consumer or MnS producer.
In addition, as the MnS consumer may be in the data centre of another
operator, stronger access control, especially stronger and feasible cross
network domains authentication is required.
Gap:
Identification of MnS producer and MnS consumer in another management domain
is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authentication between MnS producer and MnS consumer in another management
domain is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
Authorization of MnS consumer in another management domain is not supported in
existing 3GPP management system.
Tracking and audit the activities/behaviours of a MnS consumer in another
management domain is not supported in existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.5 Use case -- trust relationship between MnS producer and consumer
### 5.5.1 Description
Mutual Trust should be established between MnS consumer and producer inside a
management domain or inter different management domains before they interact
with each other, to ensure confidentially, integrity, availability and
regulation compliance of the management systems.
To build trust relationship between different entities (e.g. MnS consumer and
producer), traditionally, There are several trust models defined to establish
trust relationship between different entities and allow one entity to obtain
the levels of trust needed to form partnerships, collaborate with other
organizations, share information, or receive information/services. The typical
trust models were defined in NIST 800-39 (see [7]) including validated trust,
direct historical trust, mediated trust, mandated trust, and hybrid trust.
Similarly, ETSI NFV introduced several trust models, e.g. direct trust,
transitive trust, delegating trust (see [8]).
As shown in Figure 5.5.1-1 extracted from TS 28.533 [3] (see Figure 5.3-1: An
example of Management Service deployment framework), a MnS consumer and a MnS
producer could be in the same management domain, or different domains of same
operation, or management domains of different stakeholders, e.g. MnS consumer
is in a vertical OT system and MnS producer is in an operator\'s management
system.
Figure 5.5.1-1
The trust relationship between MnS consumer and producer is different for
different scenarios aforementioned, therefore trust model for these scenarios
could be different, and corresponding access control between MnS consumer and
producer would be different as well. E.g. Validated trust model could be
applied to MnFs (as MnS producer and consumer) in the same 3GPP management
domain, then single factor authentication and predefined authorization
policies could be used for access control between the two MnFs. Mediated,
mandated, or hybrid trust model could be more suitable for MnF (as MnS
producer) in 3GPP management system and MnS consumer in vertical OT system,
accordingly multi-factor authentication and SLA based authorization policies
could be used for access control between the producer and consumer.
In addition, the trust relationship between same MnS consumer and producer
could be changed dynamically as security context change of either MnS consumer
or producer. E.g. change of operational status, package upgrade to support new
features, scale to other region, security compromising, etc. Therefore, the
trust model and related access control need to be updated accordingly to adapt
dynamically changed situation.
Note: Zero-trust model is most stringent trust model but also implies high
cost. how to pragmatically apply zero-trust model in to 3GPP management system
is FFS.
### 5.5.2 Issue and gaps
Trust relationship and trust model for 3GPP management system have not been
specified or studies in 3GPP or other SDOs. Applying same trust model and
security control for different trust relationship could incur either undue
control (e.g. apply strict access control everywhere that caused complexity
and high cost) or lack of protection on some susceptible interfaces (e.g.
underestimate the threats and risks on external interfaces that resulted
successful attack).
Therefore, building correct and adaptive trust model for MnS producer and
consumer of 3GPP management system, and applying appropriate access control
according to the trust model need to be studied and supported by 3GPP
management system.
## 5.6 use case -- granular access control for internal consumer
### 5.6.1 Description
As described in use cases 5.3 and 5.4, There are different MnS consumers of
3GPP management system. According to operator\'s security policies, regulation
and other conditions, the access permission assigned to different consumer
could be different. E.g. based on operator security policies, modification of
a network slice may be allowed by high privileged MnS consumer in the same
management domain while other MnS consumer can only read the network slice.
Another example, based on operator security policies, reading associated
network slice subnetwork of a network slice and corresponding managed
functions could be available to a management function, but not visible to
network function.
The operator needs to configure fine grained access permissions to
differentiate the exposure of MnSs for the consumers.
### 5.6.2 Issue and gaps
Potential security issues:
Without granular access control, MnSs of 3GPP management system could be
exposed to unauthorized consumers after the consumers being authenticated.
e.g. an authenticated management function in CN domain could delete a RAN
network slice subnet that may cause unavailability of the system, or an
authenticated network function can update attributes of another network
function unexpectedly, or any administrator of the operator could performance
CURD operations on any managed objects through a digital portal or other
digital tools that may cause confidentiality, integrity, availability and
privacy issues.
Gap:
MnS and MnS components A, B, C were defined in Management and orchestration
Architecture framework (see [2]), and Management Capability Exposure
Governance (MCEG) was also introduced in the spec (see clause 4.4. of [2]) to
provide exposure governance on MnS components A, B, C.
However, how does MCEG control the access/exposure of MnS based on permissions
granted to a MnS consumer after the consumer being authenticated, as well as
how to associate the access permission of the MnS consumer (which derived from
security policies of the operator, regulation, specifications and guidelines,
etc.) to the MnS component A, B, C to realize MCEG, are not investigated or
solved in existing specification or study report.
Note: MCEG can be implemented by an Exposure governance management function
(EGMF).
## 5.7 use case -- integrate with existing AAA system of operator
### 5.7.1 Description
Generally, There are always huge number of heterogeneous management systems in
big operator\'s data centre. Administrators of the operator access the systems
for daily management and operation, while management functions of the systems
could interact with each other for network and resource management. Access
control, including Authentication, Authorization and Audit, should be
supported by each management system to avoid potential unauthorized accessing.
To save OPEX and minimize administration burden, centralized Authentication,
Authorization and Audit (AAA) system is always built in the operator\'s data
centre for common AAA functions of diversity management systems. The common
AAA functions include, e.g. identity lifecycle management, user provisioning
and role assignment, access request review and approval, security policies
(e.g. password rotation policy, multi-factor authentication policy)
management, and Single Sign On (SSO), etc.
Similarly, 5G network (including network slice) management system needs to be
enhanced to integrate its access control functionalities with centralized AAA
platform of operator, e.g. specify interfaces to enable centralized AAA
platform to sync identity information or security policies with access control
functions of 5G network management system, or collect security logs from 5G
network management system for audit and accountability, as shown in the figure
5.7.1-1. Authentication request of 5G network management system could be
redirect to centralized AAA system for single sign on, then identity
information including security policies for the identity could be synced to 5G
network management system for fine grained authorization. Operations on 5G
network could be logged by 5G network management system and sent to
centralized AAA system for audit.
Figure 5.7.1-1: Integrate 5G network management system with centralized AAA
system of operator
### 5.7.2 Issue and gaps
Requirements and solution of access control for 5G network management system,
as well as integrating access control function of 5G network management system
to centralized AAA platform of operator have not been specified in existing
3GPP and other SDOs. Currently, some management systems have its own vendor
specific AAA solution independent from centralized AAA. Some systems integrate
its AAA to centralized AAA of operator during deployment/upgrade and
maintain/synchronize the AAA related information in both systems during
runtime manually (may with various customization scripts). The existing
situation incurs high OPEX and administrative complexity for both vendor and
operator. E.g. If a new human/machine consumer added in the central AAA
system, an administrator of the operator may manually import this new consumer
into various management systems for later authorization of the new consumer by
the impacted management systems, or they need to write vendor specific script
to import the consumer to management systems supplied by different vendors
without standardized interface.
The complexity of vendor/operator specific solution could be dramatically
amplified in 5G network because more actors (vertical, operator, end user,
enterprise, transport/virtual infrastructure supplier, etc.) and operation
roles (security administrator, 5G network administrator, transport network
administrator, virtual infrastructure administrator, etc. of operator, service
administrator of vertical customer, application client of an end user or
enterprise customer, etc.) in 5G network which need to be maintained by the
operator, E2E service and slice management and orchestration need closely
collaboration and automation between different systems (e.g. 3GPP management
systems (E2E, RAN, 5GC, etc.), transport network management system, MANO,
etc.) from various vendors. Therefore, standardized interface of 5G network
management system is required to facilitate automation of security policy,
identity and roles synchronisation between AAA functions of 5G network
management system and centralized AAA system, hence reduce the OPEX and
complexity of 5G network management.
In addition, Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) introduced in 5G
enables the automation based on standardize interface.
# 6 Potential requirements for access control for management service
6.1 Potential requirements related to identification
**\- REQ-MNSAC-101** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
identify a MnS producer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-102** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
identify an internal MnS consumer in same or different management domain.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-103** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
identify the management domain of a MnS consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-104** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
identify an internal/external user who access MnS through an internal MnS
consumer.
Note 2: For example, external user may be administrator of the operator\'s
customer.
Note 3: For example, internal user may be administrator of the operator.
Note 4: For example, internal MnS consumer may be a digital portal.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-105** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support provisioning more users/accounts with different privileges in 3GPP
management system by authorized internal/external users.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-106** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
identify an external MnS consumer.
6.2 Potential requirements related to authentication
**\- REQ-MNSAC-201** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support mutual authentication between MnS producer and internal MnS consumer
in same or different management domain.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-202** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support mutual authentication between MnS producer and external MnS consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-203** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support multi-factor authentication of an external MnS consumer.
6.3 Potential requirements related to authorization
**\- REQ-MNSAC-301** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support authorization of an internal user of the 3GPP management system of the
operator based on operator\'s policies.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-302** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support authorization of an external user of the 3GPP management system of the
operator based on operator\'s policies and SLA between the operator and the
customer the external user represented.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-303** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support adaptive authorization of an external MnS consumer based on
operator\'s policies, SLA between the operator and the customer the MnS
consumer represented, and security context of the external MnS consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-304** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support authorization of a MnS consumer in same or different management domain
based on operator\'s policies (which may be standardized).
**\- REQ-MNSAC-305** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support authorization of a MnS consumer in another management domain based on
standards and operator\'s policies if both consumer and producer belong to
same operator.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-306** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support authorization of a MnS consumer in another management domain based on
standards, operator\'s policies and agreements between operators if the
consumer and producer belong to different operators.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-307** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support management domain of management consumer or management producer to
assign different privileges to different management entities/functions in the
management domain of management consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-308** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support operator to configure access permissions for a MnS consumer based on
MnS Component Type A/operations
Note 1: E.g. In case of provisioning a MOI, expose only getMOIAttributes
operation to the MnS consumer instead of all operations.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-309** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support operator to configure access permissions for a MnS consumer based on
MnS Component Type B/managed object.
Note 2: E.g. expose some MOIs to the MnS consumer but hide others, or expose
some attributes of a MOI to the MnS consumer but hide other attributes.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-310** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support operator to configure access permissions for a MnS consumer based on
MnS Component Type C/managed data.
Note 3: E.g. expose critical alarms of a MOI to the MnS consumer but hide all
other alarms and performance data of the MOI.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-311** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support operator to configure access permissions for a MnS consumer based on
any combination of MnS Component Type A, B, and optional MnS Component Type C
as well.
6.4 Potential requirements related to audit
**\- REQ-MNSAC-401** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support tracking activities of an internal MnS consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-402** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support tracking activities of an internal/external user of the 3GPP
management system.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-403** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support tracking activities of an external MnS consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-404** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support tracking activities of a MnS consumer in same management domain.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-405** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support tracking activities of a MnS consumer in another management domain.
6.5 Potential requirements related to trust relationship of MnS producer and
consumer
**\- REQ-MNSAC-501** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support evaluating trust relationship (or trust level) between MnS producer
and consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-502** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support creating trust model for MnS producer and consumer based on trust
relationship between MnS producer and consumer.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-503** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support defining access control polices for interaction between MnS producer
and consumer based on trust model for the MnS producer and consumer.
Note: E.g. access control policies could be multi-factor authentication,
access allowed in specific time or for specific duration, access allowed in
specific region, etc.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-504** The 3GPP management system may have the capability to
support revaluating trust relationship (or trust level) between MnS producer
and consumer based on changes of either MnS consumer or producer, and update
trust mode and corresponding access control polices accordingly.
6.6 Potential requirements related to centralized AAA system integration
**\- REQ-MNSAC-601** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support integration with centralized AAA system automatically based on
standardize interface.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-602** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support synchronization of security policies between 5G network management
system and centralized AAA system automatically.
Note 1: E.g. security policy could be password length, character,
aging/rotation policy, multi-factor authentication policy, etc.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-603** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support synchronization of identities between 5G network management system
and centralized AAA system automatically.
Note 2: Identity is used to identify a human user (e.g. administrator of the
operator) or machine consumer (e.g. a MnF or other application which access a
MnS) of 5G network management system, etc.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-604** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support centralized role management by distributed fine grain authorization
management together with centralized AAA system.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-605** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support synchronization of roles between 5G network management system and
centralized AAA system automatically.
Note 3: Role is assigned to an identity or a group of identities to perform
specific task, e.g. the role could be security/network administrator of an
operator, a manager of an operator, etc.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-606** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support single sign on provided by centralized AAA system for user of the
system.
**\- REQ-MNSAC-607** The 5G network management system may have the capability
to support centralized security log management and audit/accountability
together with centralized AAA system.
# 7 Possible solutions for access control for management service
## 7.1 Possible solution to support access control on management service
### 7.1.1 Enhance Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) to support
authentication capability (update clause 4 of TS 28.533 [3])
Authentication service producer provides identity management capabilities.
Identity management of MnS consumers and producers includes creating, reading,
updating and deleting identities.
Authentication service producer provides credential management capabilities.
Credential management of MnS consumers includes creating, reading, updating
and deleting credentials.
Authentication service producer provides authentication policy management
capabilities. Authentication policy management of MnS consumers and producers
includes creating, reading, updating and deleting authentication policies.
Authentication service producer provides capabilities for authentication of
MnS consumer. Authentication service producer issues an assertion to the MnS
consumer after successfully authenticated the MnS consumer.
Note 1: Certificate issued by trusted CA is used by MnS consumer to
authenticate the authentication service producer. E.g. a MnS consumer access
the authentication servicer through https if stage 3 solution set is OpenAPI,
then the MnS consumer could authenticate the producer through validating the
signature signed with certificate of the producer issued by the trusted CA.
MnS producer validates the assertion issued by trusted authentication service
producer to authenticate a MnS consumer.
Note 2: Certificate issued by trusted CA is used by MnS consumer to
authenticate a MnS producer. E.g. a MnS consumer access the MnS through https
if stage 3 solution set is OpenAPI, then the MnS consumer could authenticate
the producer through validating the signature signed with certificate of the
producer issued by the trusted CA.
Authentication Service producer can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g. in RAN, CN, domain) to support access control
between MnS consumer and producer inside the same domain, and/or in a
centralized manner (e.g. at a PLMN level) especially to support access control
between MnS consumer and producer from different domains. The Centralized
Authentication Service producer can be named as Cross Domain Authentication
Service producer.
Note: ANS stands for authentication service.
Figure 7.1.1-1: Authentication capability on service based architecture
### 7.1.2 Enhance Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) to support
authorization administrative/decision capabilities (update clause 4 of TS
28.533 [3])
Authorization service producer provides capabilities to manage permission on
MnSs for a MnS consumer or a group of MnS consumers, including create, read,
update and delete managed objects.
Authorization service producer provides capabilities to grant permissions to a
MnS consumer. Authorization service producer sends a token to the MnS consumer
based on permissions assigned to the MnS consumer in the specific context.
Note 1: A token may include a list of permissions with conditions and a
digital signature signed by the authorization service producer.
Authorization service producer provides capabilities to validate the token
presented by a MnS consumer to a MnS producer.
Note 2: Authorization enforcement is performed by the MnS producer based on
permissions in the token included in the service request, or the MnS producer
may check the permissions of a MnS consumer via authorization decision
service.
Authorization Service producer can be deployed at different levels, for
example, at a domain level (e.g. in RAN, CN, domain) to support access control
between MnS consumer and producer inside the same domain, and/or in a
centralized manner (e.g. at a PLMN level) especially to support access control
between MnS consumer and producer from different domains. The Centralized
Authorization Service producer can be named as Cross Domain Authorization
Service producer.
Note: ARS stands for authorization service.
Figure 7.1.2-1 Authorization capability on service based architecture
### 7.1.3 Enhance Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) to support
audit capabilities (update clause 4 of TS 28.533 [3])
Audit service producer provides capabilities to collect security logs from
authentication service producer, authorization service producer and MnS
producer. Similar to fault supervision management service, audit service
producer could retrieve or receive security log from other components.
Audit service producer provides capabilities to track the access behaviours of
a MnS consumer based on security logs collected.
The security log includes information, e.g. when and what MnS consumer did try
to log on to the authentication service producer, when and what MnS consumer
did try to get permissions from the authorization service producer, when and
what MnS consumer did try to access MnSs, what is the result of aforementioned
requests, success or fail? If it is fail, what is the reason, etc.
Audit Service producer can be deployed at different levels, for example, at a
domain level (e.g. in RAN, CN, domain) to support log collection and audit for
a specific domain, and/or in a centralized manner (e.g. at a PLMN level) to
support log collection and audit for all domains of a PLMN.
Note: ADS stands for audit service.
Figure 7.1.3-1: Audit capability on service based architecture
### 7.1.4 Enhance Request-response communication paradigm to support
authentication and authorization (update clause 5 of TS 28.533[3])
Figure 7.1.4-1: Request-response communication paradigm with access control
Precondition:
1\. The MnS consumer and producer are configured in authentication and
authorization service producer. The MnS consumer is always assigned for
specific role in specific group.
2\. The permissions for specific role or group are configured in authorization
service producer.
Procedures:
1\. MnS consumer logs on to authentication service producer for
authentication.
2\. Authentication service producer returns authentication assertion to the
MnS consumer once successfully authenticate the MnS consumer.
3\. With the authentication assertion, the MnS consumer asks permissions from
authorization service producer.
4\. Authorization service producer validates the assertion, check the
role/group of the MnS consumer and assigns related permissions to the MnS
consumer. Authorization service producer constructs access token based on
granted permissions and sends back the token to the MnS consumer.
The token can be described as below:
Table 7.1.4-1
Attributes Support Cardinality Description
* * *
               token ID   M               1                          The identification of the token                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
               Validity   M               1                          The time based validity of the token, beyond which the token will be considered in-valid.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                          authorizedMnS   M                          1...\*                                                                                      List of management services and its capabilities the consumer is authorized to access.                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                          MnS Type, Label, Version   O                                                                                           0...1                                                                                    Type of MnS (PROVISIONING, FAULT\_SUPERVISION, PERFORMANCE\_ASSURANCE), Label: human readable description, Version: version of the MnS                                                              
                                          allowedComponentA          M                                                                                           1...\*                                                                                   The list of operation of the MnS, consumer is authorized to access. This will be the {MnSRoot} in case of OpenAPI implementations                                                                   
                                          allowedComponentB          M                                                                                           1...\*                                                                                   The list of IOC the consumer can access.                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                     uri                                                                                         M                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                        The URI of the NRM fragment (IOC)                          
                                                                     allowedAttr                                                                                 M                                                                                        1...N                                                                                                                                    The list of attributes permission present in the IOC       
                                                                                                                                                                 attName                                                                                  M                                                                                                                                        1                                                          Attribute name present in the IOC
                                                                                                                                                                 attPermission                                                                            M                                                                                                                                        1                                                          The type of permission (Readonly, Writeable)
                                          allowedComponentC          O                                                                                           0...1                                                                                    The list of performance measurement and the KPI, the consumer is authorized to collect.                                                                                                             
                                                                     allowedMeasurement                                                                          M                                                                                        1..\*                                                                                                                                    List of authorized measurements                            
                                                                                                                                                                 managedEntity                                                                            M                                                                                                                                        1                                                          Managed entity producing the measurement
                                                                                                                                                                 perfMeasurement                                                                          M                                                                                                                                        1                                                          Measurement the consumer is authorized to collect.
                                                                     allowedKPI                                                                                  M                                                                                        1..\*                                                                                                                                    List of authorized KPI                                     
                                                                     allowedAlarmInfo                                                                            O                                                                                        1...\*                                                                                                                                   List of alarm info the consumer is authorized to receive   
                                                                                                                                                                 managedEntityAlarmInfo                                                                   M                                                                                                                                        1                                                          Alarm info
                                          allowedNotifications       M                                                                                           1...\*                                                                                   The url of the notification which consumer is authorized to subscribe for.
Note: The table 7.1.4-1 is an example, the concrete structure will be decided
in normative phase.
5\. The MnS consumer checks the access token, construct a service request
based on permissions in the token, and sends service request, including access
token, to MnS producer.
6\. MnS producer validates the access token, perform the request and return
result to the MnS consumer.
### 7.1.5 Enhance NRM and operations to support authentication, authorization
and audit capability
Note: What is the exact change in stage 2 and stage 3 will be decided in
normative phase.
# 8 Conclusions and recommendations
8.1 Conclusions
The following issues are identified in the present document:
\- The service based management architecture specified in TS 28.533 [3] should
be updated to support authentication, authorization and audit capabilities.
\- The Network Resource Model defined in TS 28.622 [4] and TS 28.623 [5]
should be updated to support authentication, authorization and audit
capabilities.
\- The Generic Management Service in TS 28.532 [6] should be updated to
support authentication and authorization capabilities.
Note 1: The concrete change will be decided in normative phase.
Note 2: Trust relationship and centralized AAA system integration related
requirements are excluded in Release 17.
8.2 Recommendations
The improvements to the Network Resource Model, Generic Management Service and
Service Based Management Architecture (as described in clause 7) are not
currently in the scope of any existing normative work. It is proposed to
enhance the specification to support access control in future normative
project.
#