# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This report is to study on network slice management capability exposure.
# 1 Scope
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] TM Forum TMF622 Product Order API REST Specification
[3] TM Forum TMF641 Service Ordering API
[4] TM Forum TMF652 Resource Order Management API
[5] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\"
[6] 3GPP TS 28.202: \"Charging management; Network slice management charging
in the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\"
[7] 3GPP TR23.700-99 "Study on Network Slice Capability Exposure for
Application Layer Enablement (NSCALE)"
[8] 3GPP TS23.434 "Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals (SEAL);
Functional architecture and information flows."
[9] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\"
[10] 3GPP TS 28.537: \"Management and orchestration; Management capabilities\"
[11] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\"
[12] TM Forum TMF633 Service Catalogue Management API
[13] TM Forum TMF620 Product Catalogue Management API
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BSS Business Support System
CSP Communication Service Provider
NOP Network OPerator
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 Concepts related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.1.1 Exposed Management Services
Exposed MnS (eMnS) represents the MnS that can be exposed by MnS producer to
the external MnS consumer. eMnS may rely on a dedicated MnF (e.g. EGMF defined
in 3GPP or function defined in other standard like TMF) that manages the
exposure aspects.
> Editor's notes: Whether eMnS is exposed transparently to external MnS
> consumer via BSS or being processed through a dedicated exposure platform is
> FFS.
#### 4.1.1.2 Exposure of Management Services
Exposure of management services supports the case that an external MnS
consumer which is outside 3GPP management system can indrectly consume
management capability offered by MnS producer within 3GPP management system.
Even though the eMnS complies with the same Technical Specification as a MnS,
the actual operational behavior and managed data may be constrained by the
network slice provider.
#### 4.1.1.3 Exposure via BSS
##### 4.1.1.3.1 General
_Exposure of service data to companies that are external to the operator are
regulated by contracts. Different customers may have access to different
management capabilities. It may differ on what attributes/policies/intents are
allowed to be changed, which value ranges changes are allowed, and which
performance metrics are allowed to be exposed._
_The network slice data with the ServiceProfile is located in the Network
Management Layer._
_Even if the external interface always goes via BSS, there are different
scenarios for how a customer, e.g. vertical, can influence the
ServiceProfile._
The capabilities required by a Vertical have to be the same on the interface
between NOP Network Management Layer and CSP Service manager. The external
interface is external to the administrative domain of the operator, while the
internal interface is inside the administrative domain of the operator.
##### 4.1.1.3.2 Exposure scenarios
Scenario 1: Consumption of exposed MnS by applications
> Editor's note: This scenario doesn't fit in the level of details of this
> section. Where to incorporate this section is FFS.
The operator has other non-management entities such as the middleware or
application servers (AS) defined by 3GPP SA6 that could consume management
services as shown in Figure 4.1.1.3.2-1. In such a case the BSS may or may not
be directly involved. An example of an external application could be a V2X
application server may use the management system to provision V2X slices in a
certain geography (AS2 or AS3 in Figure). An example for an internal
application could be the operators eMBB application server discovering a newly
supported coverage area and provisioning the operator eMBB network slice
instance in that area (AS1 in Figure). AS1 and AS2 access the 3GPP management
system from an operator internal enabler server (see TR23.700-99), another
enabler server could be located in the vertical premises and therefore
external to the operator. In TR23.700-99 both such options are considered. In
this scenario the operator MnSs are directly consumed by internal or external
entities (subject to prior agreements) without going through the BSS. In
addition to application servers and application enabler server, any internal
of external authorized application function may also access exposed MnS.
In Figure 4.1.1.3.2-1 AS1 and AS2 may or may not be aware that they use
exposed MnSs from the operator. The respective enabler servers could hide this
internal implementation. Bother enabler servers may access exposed MnS subject
to respective authorization. However, it is likely that the application
enabler server A and AF1 have direct access to management services without a
BSS, whereas the application enabler server B and AF2 would need some sort of
involvement of the BSS.
Figure 4.1.1.3.2-1 Exposure to application server within and outside operator
network
#### 4.1.1.4 Exposure without going through BSS
##### 4.1.1.4.1 General
_Exposure of service data to companies that are external to the operator are
regulated by contracts. The exposure usually goes through BSS, as explained in
clause 4.1.1.2. However, based on specific contract, the customer may interact
with the Operator without going through BSS. There are different scenarios for
how a customer having such contract interacts with Operator for the network
slice management capability exposure._
##### 4.1.1.4.2 Exposure scenarios
Scenario 1: The NOP and NSP belong to the same Operator. The OSS/SML and
OSS/NML are connected via internal interface. The external customer has an
external interface with the NSP based on the contract between the external
customer and NSP.
NOTE 1: External customer may have connection with NSP BSS for the product-
level interaction. If not, the OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS
functionalities for the product-level interaction.
NOTE 2: The Company-B BSS connects to the BSS part of external customer and
the Company-B OSS/SML connect to the OSS/SML part of external customer.
{width="3.703472222222222in" height="2.9256944444444444in"}
Figure 4.1.1.4.2-1 NSP OSS/SML to customer being an external interface
Scenario 2: The NOP may interface to an external NSP that has a contract with
NOP for the exposure directly via OSS. The NOP's OSS/SML have a direct machine
to machine interface with the NSP's OSS/SML. The external customer has an
external interface with the NSP OSS/SML based on the contract between external
customer and NSP.
NOTE 3: External customer may have connection with NSP BSS for the product-
level interaction. If not, the NSP OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS
functionalities for the product-level interaction.
NOTE 4: If the external customer can get access to the OSS directly, it must
maintain a copy of a part of the operator's MIB. if the customer wants to e.g.
receive alarms or performance measurements or KPIs related to the network
slice the customer has ordered to the NSP, these alarms / perf. meas / KPIs
need to relate to some MOIs known at customer side. All these MOIs shall be
part of a containment tree in the copy of the Operators' MIB maintained by the
customer.
> Editor's notes: Whether and how does the external customer obtain the copy
> of a part of the operator's MIB is FFS.
NOTE 5: The Company-B BSS connects to the BSS part of external customer and
the Company-B OSS/SML connect to the OSS/SML part of external customer.
{width="5.196527777777778in" height="2.4555555555555557in"}
Figure 4.1.1.4.2-2 NOP OSS/SML to NSP OSS/SML interface being an external
interface
Scenario 3: The NOP OSS/SML may interface to an external NSP OSS/SML based on
the contract between the two parties. The \"External NSP OSS/SML\" has
internal interface with NSP BSS. The NSP might have a machine to machine
interface towards their customer (e.g. a vertical) via their BSS.
NOTE 6: External customer may have connection with BSS for the product-based
interaction. If not, the NSP OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS functionalities
for the product-based interaction.
NOTE 7: If the external customer can get access to the OSS directly, it must
maintain a copy of a part of the operator's MIB. if the customer wants to e.g.
receive alarms or performance measurements or KPIs related to the network
slice the customer has ordered to the NSP, these alarms / perf. meas / KPIs
need to relate to some MOIs known at customer side. All these MOIs shall be
part of a containment tree in the copy of the Operators' MIB maintained by the
customer.
> Editor's notes: Whether and how does the external customer obtain the copy
> of a part of the operator's MIB is FFS.
{width="6.0569444444444445in" height="2.892361111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1.4.2-3 NOP OSS/SML to NSP OSS/SML being an external interface, NSP
BSS to customer being an external interface
### 4.1.2 Roles related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.2.1 Exposed MnS
The roles related to network management capability exposure are the Exposed
MnS consumer and Exposed MnS producer with the interface for the Exposed MnS
(eMnS). The roles and interface are shown in Figure 4.1.2.1.1
{width="5.3125in" height="0.53125in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1.1 Roles related to network management capability exposure
#### 4.1.2.2 Exposed MnS consumer
The logical entity consuming management capability offered by an Exposed MnS
producer is called an Exposed MnS consumer. An eMnS consumer is equivalent to
an MnS consumer with the difference that it is outside the trust domain of the
CSP or NOP. An eMnS consumer is owned by an external customer (e.g. vertical
such as Industry, Internet Company, etc) which may take the role of a CSC or
NSC. The external customer usually has specific service requirements on a 5G
network.
#### 4.1.2.3 Exposed MnS producer
The logical entity offering management capability that can be consumed by an
Exposed MnS consumer is called Exposed MnS producer. An eMnS producer is owned
by a service provider which may take the role of a CSP or NSP.
### 4.1.3 Types of interface for the exposure of network slice
#### 4.1.3.1 Introduction
Different types of interfaces may be used during the whole lifecycle of
network slice, including ordering, provisioning, operation phases. These
interfaces can be categorized as:
\- Inter-organization interfaces (represented East-West):
\- Between the organizational entity playing the Network Slice Customer (NSC)
role, named Company V here, and the organizational entity playing the Network
Slice Provider (NSP) role, named Company A here:
\- Interface Type-A to:
\- create a product (network slice) order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product (network slice) order,
\- update a product (network slice) order,
\- delete a product (network slice) order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-A include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering).
Interface Type-A is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Between the organizational entity playing the Network Slice Provider (NSP)
role, named Company A here, and the two organizational entities playing the
Communication Service Provider (CSP) role, acting as 'partners' and named
Company X and Company Y respectively here
\- Interface Type-X to:
\- create a product order,
\- retrieve information concerning a product order,
\- update a product order,
\- delete a product order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-X include, but are not limited to, TMF API
622 (Product ordering).
Interface Type-X is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Intra-organization interfaces (represented North-South), internal to the
organizational entity playing the Network Slice Provider (NSP) role:
\- Between its BSS and its OSS/SML
\- Interface Type-1 to:
\- create a service order,
\- retrieve information concerning a service order,
\- update a service order,
\- delete a service order;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-1 include, but are not limited to, TMF API
641 (Service ordering).
Interface Type-1 is not in the scope of 3GPP.
\- Between its OSS/SML and its OSS/NML
\- Interface Type-2 to:
\- create a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- retrieve information concerning a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- update a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- delete a network slice / network slice subnet,
\- collect PM and FM data concerning a network slice / network slice subnet;
Candidate APIs for Interface Type-2 include, 3GPP TS 28.531, TS 28.532, TS
28.545, TS 28.550.
Interface Type-2 is in the scope of 3GPP/SA5.
The following clauses describe a non-exhaustive set of use cases.
In case of additional use cases, new types of interfaces may be needed.
#### 4.1.3.2 Use case No.1: simple case
In this use case, Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A
product offerings and sends a request to Company-A to order the product which
is a network slice via Interface Type-A.
As Company-A can satisfy Company-V's requirements by itself, it doesn't have
to count on partners.
In this use case, Interface Type-A, Type-1 and Type-2 are involved.
{width="5.715277777777778in" height="3.527083333333333in"}
Figure 4.1.3.2.1 Use case No.1: simple case
#### 4.1.3.3 Use case No.2: partners involved
In this use case, Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A
product offerings and sends a request to Company-A to order the product which
is a network slice via Interface Type-A.
As Company-A can't satisfy Company-V's requirements by itself, it has to count
on partners (Company-X and Company-Y), e.g. to provide RAN coverage in their
respective countries.
In this use case, Interface Type-A, Type-1, Type-2 and Type-X are involved.
{width="5.767361111111111in" height="2.6069444444444443in"}
Figure 4.1.3.3.1 Use case No.2: partners involved
### 4.1.4 Procedures related to consumption of exposed network management
capabilities
#### 4.1.4.1 Introduction
When an NSP receives an order from an NSC for a network slice enabled product,
the order is decomposed by the NSP's BSS. Depending if the NSP employs
services from 3^rd^ party CSP's different procedures may apply for the same
order. The different procedures applicable to the same order may be invoked
asynchronously and treated as independent procedures, however it may not
result in loss of traceability between the original order and the orders that
are created as result of decomposition. The following procedures have been
identified:
\- Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving product order
from NSC
\- Procedure invoking external product order after receiving product order
from NSC
\- Procedure invoking external service order after receiving product order
from NSC
#### 4.1.4.2 Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a service order internal to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in 4.1.4.2.1. The interface
through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS level. The
steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.2.1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.122222222222222in" height="3.0030063429571303in"}
Figure 4.1.4.2.1 Procedure invoking internal service order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS Service Management Layer. This is
internal to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
3) The OSS Service Management Layer receives a service order from the BSS. The
interface between the BSS of the NSP and the OSS_SML of the NSP is used.
4) The OSS Service Management Layer processes the service order and when
applicable converts it to appropriate request(s) for the OSS Network
Management Layer as requests for management and orchestration of resources.
This is internal to the OSS Service Management Layer and there are no
interface requirements.
5) The OSS Network Management Layer receives a request from the OSS Service
Management Layer. An interface between the OSS Service Management Layer and
OSS Network Management Layer may be used.
6) The OSS Network Management Layer processes the request and when applicable
converts it to appropriate request(s) for the network. An interface between
the OSS Network Management Layer and Network Layer (not shown) may be used.
7) The OSS Network Management Layer notifies the OSS Service Management Layer
that the resource order(s) have been completed. An interface between the OSS
Service Management Layer and the Network Layer may be used.
8) The OSS Service Management Layer notifies the BSS that the service order
has been completed. The interface between the OSS Service Management Layer and
the BSS is used.
9) The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The NSC
may start using the services included in the product order. The interface
between the NSC and the BSS is used.
#### 4.1.4.3 Procedure invoking external product order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a product order external to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in 4.1.4.3.1. The interface
through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS level. The
steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.3.1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.529166666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.4.3.1 Procedure invoking external product order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The NSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate product order(s) towards a 3^rd^ party CSP BSS. This is internal
to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
NOTE: When the BSS_NSP receives a product order the BSS_NSP splits the product
order into service orders. A service order that can be fulfilled by the NSP
will be processed by the NSP_OSS_SML (see also Figure 4.1.4.2.1) while a
service order that cannot be fulfilled by NSP will be ordered from the CSP
through a product order.
3) The CSP BSS receives a product order from the NSP BSS. The interface
between the BSS of the CSP and the BSS of the NSP is used.
4) The CSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the CSP OSS. This is internal to the BSS and
there are no interface requirements.
5) The CSP OSS receives a service order from the CSP BSS. The interface
between the BSS and the OSS both belonging to the CSP is used.
6) The CSP OSS processes the service order until the service order is
completed.
7) The CSP OSS notifies the CSP BSS that the service order has been completed.
The interface between the OSS and the BSS both belonging to the CSP is used.
8) The CSP BSS notifies the NSP BSS that the product order has been completed.
The interface between the BSS of the CSP and the OSS of an NSP is used.
9) The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The NSC
may start using the services included in the product order.
#### 4.1.4.4 Procedure invoking external service order after receiving product
order from NSC
_The procedure for invoking a service order external to the NSP after
receiving a product order from an NSC is shown in 4.1.4.4.1. The interface
through which the NSC can order a product from the NSP is on BSS level. The
steps as shown in Figure 4.1.4.4.1 are described in the subsequent
paragraphs._
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="3.03125in"}
Figure 4.1.4.4.1 Procedure invoking external service order after receiving
product order from NSC
1) The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through the interface to BSS.
The interface between the NSC and BSS of the NSP is used.
2) The NSP BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS producer. This is internal to BSS
producer and there are no interface requirements.
3) The NSP OSS receives a service order from the NSP BSS. The interface
between the OSS and the BSS, both belonging to the same NSP, is used.
4) The OSS processes the service order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for a 3^rd^ party CSP OSS. This is internal to
the OSS producer and there are no interface requirements.
5) The CSP OSS receives a service order from the NSP OSS producer. The
interface between the OSS of the CSP and the OSS of the NSP is used.
6) The CSP OSS processes the service order until the service order is
completed. This is internal to the OSS producer and there are no interface
requirements.
7) The CSP OSS notifies the CSP BSS that the service order has been completed.
The interface between the OSS and the BSS, both belonging to the same CSP, is
used.
8) The CSP OSS notifies the NSP OSS producer (may occur at the same time as or
before step 7) that the service order has been completed. The interface
between the OSS of the CSP and the OSS of the NSP is used.
9) The NSP BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. The
NSC may start using the services included in the product order.
> 4.1.4.5 Procedure for product onboarding
{width="6.69375in" height="3.025in"}
Figure 4.1.4.5.1 Procedure related to product onboarding
  1. OSS_SML obtains 3GPP management services in the network through management service discovery;
  2. OSS_SML governs the rules and policies of MnS and configures the available MnS (e.g. eMnS) to BSS_NSP. For example, if the RAN NE is dedicated to external customers, the performance monitoring service of a RAN NE should be exposed. Otherwise, it should not be exposed;
  3. Optional, the BSS_NSP may send information to request the list of available services from OSS_SML;
  4. OSS_SML provides the list of available services to BSS_NSP;
  5. BSS_NSP configures (groups or package the services into a product) the services from OSS_SML such that they can be exposed to NSC;
  6. NSC should request the product catalog from BSS_NSP.
  7. BSS_NSP provides product catalog to NSC.
> Editor's Note: "EGMF can have the functionality of eMnS data Whether
> registration to an external discovery system is FFS."
## 4.2 Issues
## 4.2.1 Issue #1: Types of NSCs
The problem of network slice capability exposure is mostly relevant for
B2B/B2B2C market, where Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) [1] model applies.
In this regard, different types of NSCs can be found.
  * Baseline vertical customer: it corresponds to a NSC which is only > interested in monitoring the network slice, to verify it behaves > as expected, according to the SLA. This NSC does typically have no > telco experience, and is associated to a network slice that is > entirely deployed on a PLMN. The capabilities offered to a > baseline vertical customer includes the ability for this NSC to > receive information on subscribed items, including network slice > status (e.g. active, inactive) and subscribed management data > (e.g., KPIs, events/logs, trace data, etc.). The profile of this > NSC type is a 'passive NSC'.
  * Advanced vertical customer: it corresponds to an NSC which requests > (to the NSP) a dedicated network slice for the provision of > PNI-NPN services. In this scenario, a portion of the network slice > is deployed within the NSC premises (e.g., RAN, UPF) and the other > portion (e.g., 5GC control plane functions) is hosted by one or > more PLMN nodes. Unlike the baseline vertical customer, this new > NSC does typically have (yet limited) telco knowledge, and wants > to retain certain control over the allocated network slice. The > capabilities offered to an advanced vertical customer might > include (i) monitoring capabilities, i.e. the same capabilities > offered to a baseline vertical customer and (ii) device > configuration capabilities, i.e. provision of parameters for > battery, mobility and communication patterns associated to the > device, (iii) edge discovery/selection, e.g. in case the vertical > wants to deploy workloads on the telco edge cloud.
  * Hyperscaler: it corresponds to a NSC which requests (to the NSP) a > dedicated network slice to provide a service-tailored connectivity > pipe to a NSC's customer. With some enterprises (i.e., NSC's > customer) starting to migrate workloads towards hyperscaler nodes, > it is necessary for the hyperscaler (i.e., NSC) to provide SLA > guarantees to these enterprises, especially for critical > processes/services. However, the hyperscaler does not have network > resources between its cloud nodes and customer premises, and > therefore has to ask the mobile network operator (i.e., NSP) to > set up a network slice between these endpoints. The capabilities > offered to a hyperscaler might include (i) monitoring > capabilities, i.e., the same capabilities offered to a baseline > vertical customer; (ii) quality on demand, i.e. dynamic QoS and > bandwidth management; (iii) policy control.
  * Mobile (Virtual) Network Operator.
> _NOTE 1: In all the above cases, the NSP role is assumed to be played by an
> MNO._
>
> _NOTE 2: The capabilities mentioned above are neither exhaustive nor
> accurate, but examples to motivate the need for considering different NSC
> types._
_The NSC types within the scope of FS_NSCE should be use case driven._
## 4.2.2 Issue #2: Types of capabilities available for exposure
When referring to the capabilities a NSC might be interested to consume, we
have three big groups of capabilities that a NSP can make available for
consumption:
  * Application layer capabilities, within the scope of SA6.
  * Management layer capabilities, within the scope of SA5.
  * Network layer capabilities, within the scope of SA2.
_There is the need to have one single exposure layer to make all the
capabilities available for NSCs. This exposure layer should integrate network
layer capabilities (\@NEF, SA2), management layer capabilities (\@MCEG, SA5),
application layer capabilities (\@SEAL, SA6), together with non-3GPP
capabilities (e.g. cloud related capabilities). Otherwise, if every SA WG
starts defining their own exposure fabric, (i) the likelihood of encountering
incompatibilities/duplicities across these WG specific solutions is high; (ii)
the operators may come up with increased integration efforts, which ultimately
may make their systems very hard to build and maintain. Which 3GPP working
group is responsible to provide the single exposure layer is FFS._
## 4.2.3 Issue #3: EGMF/MCEG
The Exposure Governance Management Function (EGMF) was originally defined in
TS 28.533 [2] as an MnF providing management capability exposure governance
(MCEG). However, the current definition needs more elaboration on the
following questions:
  * The functional scope of management capability exposure governance, > and its relationship with the access control and with existing API > GW solutions in carrier networks.
  * The impact of management capability exposure governance on the > Network Slice NRM fragment. Is within the scope of SA5 or not? If > in-scope, then:
    * what NSC related information (e.g., NSC id, NSC granted capabilities) does the NSP send to the NOP?
    * how does the NOP manage this information in relation to the existing NetworkSlice and NetworkSliceSubnet IOCs?
  * The need to standardize EGMF. Does SA5 really need to define this > MnF? Doesn't this approach mean moving away from producer centric > model of SA5, i.e., focus on service producers rather than MnFs?
  * If EGMF standardization is within the scope of SA5, then does SA5 > need to provide details on EGMF internals? Does SA5 need to decide > whether the EGMF is positioned on the Network Management Layer > (NML), or the Service Management Layer (SML), or BSS layer?
## 4.2.4 Issue #4: NSC-NSP service interaction
_**The** NSC-NSP service interactions work (i.e., APIs made available by the
NSP, for consumption by the NSCs) is out of the 3GPP scope. Based on the
proposal #2, which argues in favour of having one single exposure layer
integrating 3GPP SA2/SA5/SA6 capabilities and non-3GPP capabilities, together
with the fact that a high number of NSCs are not familiar with 3GPP models, it
makes sense to let these interactions be covered in other industry fora. The
potential group to provide the single exposure layer is FFS._
## 4.2.5 Issue #5: Relation to other SA5 work/study items
The work conducted in the FS_NSCE is related to other Rel-17 SI/WIs,
including:
  * MSAC (Management Service Access Control), on the access control > aspects inherent to exposure to 3^rd^ parties. NSP shall expose > capabilities to NSCs in a controlled, secure and auditable way.
  * OAM_NPN (Management of Non-Public Networks), when the network slice > is used for the provisioning of a PNI-NPN. In this case, the modes > 1b defined in [3] applies.
  * eMEMTANE (Management of enhanced tenant concept), on the need to > associate tenants to different NSCs, and manage the corresponding > information in the NRM.
  * 5GDMS (Discovery of management services in 5G), on the need for NSCs > to discover capabilities available for consumption.
_**The work in FS_NSCE** is to leverage outcomes from the Rel-17 study/work
items which are listed above. It seems these study/work items provides most
(if not all) the ingredients for the network slice capability exposure topic,
so the mission of FS_NSCE should be to find out the recipe to combine them and
provide overall exposure picture._
## 4.2.6 Issue #5: Network slice management capability exposure interface via
OSS
Use cases regarding exposure interface via OSS has been introduced in Section
6. NSC can make contract with the NSP or CSP regarding exposure via BSS. Upon
the completion of the contact, the NSC can directly get access to the OSS
within the NSP or CSP for access the exposed MnS. Several key issues exist for
the use cases. For example, how does the NSC identifies the address of MnS
producer for the exposed MnS within the OSS and how to consume the exposed MnS
directly from OSS needs to be addressed.
# 5 Use cases for network management capability exposure
## 5.1 Network slice management capability exposure
### 5.1.1 Description
A use case of network slice management capability exposure can be described as
follows:
1\. NSP selects the MnS that can be exposed externally.
2\. NSP decides on any constraints that shall be applied to the MnS when it is
exposed externally. For example, NSP may decide to disallow certain
operations, limit the Managed Object Instances that may be managed, or
aggregate/anonymize sensitive data.
3\. NSP implements and deploys a Management Function which consumes the MnS,
applies any constraints, and exposes the resulting functionality as an eMnS.
4\. NSP may publish the eMnS in a service catalog or service directory.
### 5.1.2 Issue and gaps
Gap:
Whether and how to publish eMnS which can be exposed to BSS to a suitable eMnS
producer for network management capability exposure is not specified in
existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.2 Exposure of MnS for monitoring QoS of video application
### 5.2.1 Description
A use case of exposure of MnS for monitoring QoS of video application can be
described as follows:
1\. A live concert with high-resolution video application service is provided
with service provider A (i.e. associate to eMnS consumer). A local hosting
network (e.g. SNPN) is available and provides localized services for high-
resolution video service of the concert. The local hosting network is managed
by the service provider A. The high-resolution video streaming service of the
live concert is available from both the local hosting network and PLMN.
Service provider A and the provider of PLMN (i.e. associate to eMnS provider)
are two different parties.
2\. The service provider A of the local hosting network can have an offer from
the Operator of PLMN before identifying the correct MnS for exposure through
BSS (e.g. by using Product Catalog). The BSS may obtain the information of MnS
that is allowed to be exposed using a MnS service for exposure provided by
OSS. The contract may contain the agreement on the exposure of MnSs for
consuming certain management MnS related to QoS. According to the contract,
the service provider A can have the permission to use the MnS for consuming
certain performance MnS related to QoS for the PLMN. The performance MnS can
be related to NR and 5GC, e.g. Average DL UE throughput in gNB.
3\. Once the offer has been accepted, the corresponding exposure governance
management service within the 3GPP management system (of the Operator of PLMN)
is configured with permission rule through the interface between BSS and OSS.
The permission rule defines that the provider of the local hosting network can
have the right to access certain management MnS regarding QoS.
4\. Through obtaining the measurement MnS using exposure capability, the
provider of the local hosting network can determine the situation when PLMN
cannot support the high-resolution video service with satisfied QoS. In this
case, the service provider A can notify its customers about the local hosting
network that may improve the QoS of the high-resolution video application.
### 5.2.2 Issue and gaps
> Gap:
The definition and the format of the permission rule for the network
management capability exposure regarding NR and 5GC related performance MnS is
not specified in existing 3GPP management system.
Whether and how to publish MnS which can be exposed to externals to a suitable
MnS service producer for the exposure of performance MnS regarding NR and 5GC
is not specified in existing 3GPP management system.
## 5.3 eMnS discovery service
### 5.3.1 Description
A use case of eMnS discovery service is described as follows:
1\. MNO A provides eMnSs from 3GPP management system for external customers
and these eMnSs go through BSS for exposure.
2\. In order to provide such discovery service to external customer, MNO A
wishes to use an eMnS discovery service producer that takes responsibility for
making eMnS data available for it to be discovered by the BSS.
### 5.3.2 Issue and gaps
#### Gap:
Study is needed whether the eMnS discovery service is to be provided by the
MnS discovery service producer or by a dedicated eMnS discovery service
producer (e.g. EGMF).
Study is needed on whether the MnS data as defined in 28.533 can also be re-
used for eMnS data, or if any extensions are necessary.
## 5.4 eMnS support to discovery systems
### 5.4.1 Description
An eMnS should be allowed to register to an authorized supported discovery
system such that interested authorized consumers (within or external to the
operator) are able to discover it. This implies that the eMnS is only exposed
to a discovery system where a pre-existing contract allows for such an
exposure.
1\. An operator would like to register its eMnS to a trusted discovery system.
The operator configures the eMnS with the discovery system's address and the
appropriate level of exposure for the registration. The eMnS is registered at
the discovery system with the appropriate level of exposure.
2\. The operator performs changes in its management system that impacts the
information exposed by the eMnS. The changed information is automatically
updated in the discovery system.
3\. In case the relationship between the operator and a discovery system ends,
which implies the system is no longer trusted, then the eMnS automatically
requests deletion of its registration in the discovery system.
Editor's Note: How the "is no longer trusted" would be handled by the
authentication and authorization and system is FFS, since it is not clear how
a non-trust party can be trusted to delete a registration entry.
### 5.4.2 Issue and gaps
There are several issues that need to be resolved.
Issues:
There is a difference if the discovery system is external or internal to the
operator. A discovery system for internal use may still exist outside the
scope of management.
There is an issue with managing which consumers have access to the discovery
system and could theoretically consume the management service.
There is an issue with the trust (i.e., authentication and authorization)
between the three parties (MnS producer/operator, MnS consumer/customer and
discovery system owner) in this use case.
Gap:
To limit issues the exposure from a discovery system of the operator may only
provide "read" permissions (w.r.t the eMnS) without authentication and
authorization. To execute the discovered eMnS the consumer still needs to be
authenticated and authorized by the management system. Therefore, there is a
gap in the difference in exposure for consumption, and exposure for discovery
which needs to be solved.
## 5.5 Exposure of network slice as a product
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case involves the following roles:
\- NSP: Network Slice Provider
\- NSC: Network Slice Customer
\- NOP: Network Operator
\- CSC: Communication Service Customer
\- CSP: Communication Service Provider
, and the following systems:
\- BSS: Business Support System
\- OSS: Operations Support System, made up of the two following sub-systems:
\- SML: Service Management Layer
\- NML: Network Management Layer (for sake of simplicity, network management
and network element / function management are both in the NML).
#### 5.5.1.1 Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP played by the same organization
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G network (RAN + core). In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the
whole set of network resources used by the service required to support the
product ordered by Vertical V
\- a NML, to manage the network resources used by services
{width="5.192361111111111in" height="2.7756944444444445in"}
Figure 5.5.1.1-1: Sub-use case 1 - NSP and NOP played by the same organization
Company-A product catalogue proposes the following product offerings:
\- Network Slice eMBB with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice URLLC with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
Network Slice MIoT with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum.
In this sub-use case 1:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A product offerings
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) to order the product
'Network Slice eMBB Platinum'. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API 622
(Product Ordering)
2.1 Company-A BSS determines which service supports the product being ordered
by Company-V and issues a request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This
service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF
API 641 (Service Ordering)
2.2 OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service being
ordered and issues a request to the OSS / NML to allocate required network
resources, e.g. network slice subnet(s), network functions, etc. To achieve
this, candidate APIs are from 3GPP TS 28.531 and TS 28.532
2.3 OSS / NML allocates network resources required to support the service and
informs OSS / SML back about the characteristics of the network resources
being allocated
2.4 OSS / SML associates the allocated network resources to the service and
informs its BSS back about the characteristics of the service supporting the
product
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
product ordered is now available to Company-V.
NOTE: in this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
#### 5.5.1.2 Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G core network. In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the whole set
of 5G core network resources used by the service required to support the
product ordered by Vertical-V
\- a NML, to manage the 5G core network resources used by services
As Company-A has no RAN in all requested areas, it relies on external
organizations, namely Company-X and Company-Y, to provide RAN coverage in the
US and in Spain respectively. Therefore:
\- Company-A plays the role of Communication Service Customer (CSC) wrt.
Company-X and Company-Y who both play the role of Communication Service
Provider (CSP)
\- Both Company-X and Company-Y have their own catalogue of products to offer
RAN coverage in their respective countries
\- Both Company-X and Company-Y play the role of CSP (for their respective
product offerings) and NOP (for their respective RAN).
{width="6.129166666666666in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
Figure 5.5.1.2-1: Sub-use case 2 - NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
Company-A product catalogue proposes the following product offerings:
\- Network Slice eMBB with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
\- Network Slice URLLC with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum
Network Slice MIoT with different flavours: Silver, Gold, Platinum.
In this sub-use case 2:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) chooses a product from Company-A product offerings
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) to order the product
'Network Slice eMBB Platinum'. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API 622
(Product Ordering)
2.1 Company-A BSS determines which service supports the product being ordered
by Company-V and issues a request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This
service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF
API 641 (Service Ordering)
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being ordered and:
2.2.1 based on its knowledge that required 5G core network resources are
available internally, it issues a request to its own OSS / NML to allocate
required 5G core network resources, e.g. network slice subnet(s) for its 5G
core network, etc. To achieve this, candidate APIs are from 3GPP TS 28.531 and
TS 28.532
2.2.2 Company-A OSS / NML allocates 5G core network resources required to
support the service and informs OSS / SML about the characteristics of the
network resources being allocated
2.2.3 based on its knowledge that required RAN resources are not available
internally, it informs Company-A BSS about missing RAN resources
2.3 Company-A BSS:
2.3.1 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-X to order product X-1
(e.g. from the Wholesale offerings) to get RAN coverage in the US. To achieve
this, a candidate API is TMF AP 622 (Product ordering). Company-X, as the CSP,
receives the product order. Company-X BSS determines which service supports
the product being ordered by Company-A and issues a request to its OSS/SML to
order this service. This service can be e.g. a network slice. To achieve this,
a candidate API is TMF API 641 (Service Ordering). Company-X OSS / SML
determines which network resources support the service being ordered, etc.
Once completed, Company-X BSS informs Company-A BSS that the product which has
been ordered is now available to Company-A
2.3.2 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-Y to order product Y-1
(e.g. from the inter-operator network slice offerings) to get RAN coverage in
Spain. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF AP 622 (Product ordering).
Company-Y, as the CSP, receives the product order. Company-Y BSS determines
which service supports the product being ordered by Company-A and issues a
request to its OSS/SML to order this service. This service can be e.g. a
network slice. To achieve this, a candidate API is TMF API 641 (Service
Ordering). Company-Y OSS / SML determines which network resources support the
service being ordered, etc. Once completed, Company-Y BSS informs Company-A
BSS that the product which has been ordered is now available to Company-A
2.3.3 informs its own OSS/SML that required RAN resources are available
2.4 Company-A OSS / SML associates the network resources allocated either
internally or externally (by Company-X or Company-Y) to the service and
informs its BSS about the characteristics of the service supporting the
product
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
product ordered is now available to Vertical-V.
NOTE: in this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
#### 5.5.1.3 Exposure of the network slice as a product
In both sub-use case 1 and sub-use case 2, the characteristics of the network
slice ordered by the NSC to the NSP are exposed by the NSP to the NSC at
product-level, i.e. as specified by the product specification in the NSP
catalogue. The product specification provides the characteristics of the
product being offered by the NSP at business level and is not subject to
standardization. These characteristics are generally more abstract than
attributes defined in the 3GPP 5G NRM (cf. TS 28.541) and performance
measurements defined in TS 28.552.
In these two sub-use cases, there is no exposure of service or network
resources directly to the NSC.
## 5.6 Exposure of network slice as a service
### 5.6.1 Description
This use case involves the following roles:
\- NSP: Network Slice Provider
\- NSC: Network Slice Customer
\- NOP: Network Operator
\- CSC: Communication Service Customer
\- CSP: Communication Service Provider
, and the following systems:
\- BSS: Business Support System
\- OSS: Operations Support System, made up of the two following sub-systems:
\- SML: Service Management Layer
\- NML: Network Management Layer (for sake of simplicity, network management
and network element / function management are both in the NML).
#### 5.6.1.1 Sub-use case 1: NSP and NOP play by the same organization
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V, which has a contract with Company-A for the exposure directly
via OSS, plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products,
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G network (RAN + core). In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the
whole set of network resources used by the service that can potentially
support the service required by Company-V
\- a NML, to manage the network resources used by services
NOTE: NSC may have connection with Company-A BSS for the product-level
interaction. If not, the OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS functionalities for
the product-level interaction.
{width="5.309027777777778in" height="3.4229166666666666in"}
Figure 5.6.1.1-1 Sub-use case -- NSP and NOP played by the same organization
Company-A proposes the following product offering together with the exposure
capability:
\- Network Slice eMBB with the exposure capability of related KPI monitoring
and alarm notification, etc.
In this sub-use case 1:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) gets the information regarding eMnSs that are
available via the eMnS discovery service from the Company-A.
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) for the access to
exposed MnS set 'Network Slice eMBB', which contains the exposure capabilities
such as related KPI monitoring and alarm notification, etc. To achieve this, a
candidate API is the interface with the MnF that controls the exposure
governance (e.g. EGMF).
2.1 Company-A SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-V.
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML sents a response, including the authentication
materials (e.g. key, token) for access to the chosen exposed MnS.
3\. The company-V can direct consume the exposed MnS (e.g. KPI monitoring and
alarm notification) from SML of the Company-A's 3GPP management system.
#####
#### 5.6.1.2 Sub-use case 2: NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
In this scenario, the following organizations play aforementioned roles as
follows:
\- Company-V, which has a contract with Company-A for the exposure directly
via OSS, plays the role of NSC
\- Company-A plays the role of NSP and NOP
\- As NSP, it has:
\- a BSS, e.g. to manage its customers, products, contracts, and
\- a SML, to manage the services that support its products,
\- As NOP, it has:
\- its own 5G core network. In this sub-use case, Company-A owns the whole set
of 5G core network resources used by the service that can potentially support
the service required by Company-V
\- a NML, to manage the 5G core network resources used by services
As Company-A has no RAN in all requested areas, it relies on a different
organization with a specific contract (e.g. exposure directly via OSS), namely
Company-B Spain and Company-C USA, to provide RAN coverage in the Spain and in
the USA respectively. Therefore:
\- Company-A plays the role of Communication Service Customer (CSC) wrt.
Company-B Spain and Company-C USA who both play the role of Communication
Service Provider (CSP)
\- Both Company-B Spain and Company-C USA have their own services to offer RAN
coverage in their respective countries
\- Both Company-B Spain and Company-C USA play the role of CSP (for their
respective product offerings) and NOP (for their respective RAN).
NOTE 1: NSC may have connection with Company-A BSS for the product-level
interaction. If not, the OSS/SML may have an embedded BSS functionalities for
the product-level interaction.
NOTE 2: If the external customer can get access to the OSS directly, it must
maintain a copy of a part of the operator's MIB. If the customer wants to e.g.
receive alarms or performance measurements or KPIs related to the network
slice the customer has ordered to the NSP, these alarms / perf. meas / KPIs
need to relate to some MOIs known at customer side. All these MOIs shall be
part of a containment tree in the copy of the Operators' MIB maintained by the
customer.
> {width="6.00625in" height="3.1770833333333335in"}
Figure 5.6.1.2-1 Sub-use case -- NOP role played simultaneously by different
organizations
Company-A proposes the following product offering together with the exposure
capability:
\- Network Slice eMBB with the exposure capability of related KPI monitoring
and alarm notification, etc.
In this sub-use case 2:
1\. Company-V (as the NSC) gets the information regarding eMnSs that are
available via the eMnS discovery service from the Company-A.
2\. Company-V sends a request to Company-A (as the NSP) for the access to
exposed MnS set 'Network Slice eMBB Platinum', which contains the exposure
capabilities such as related KPI monitoring and alarm notification, etc. To
achieve this, a candidate API is the interface with the MnF that controls the
exposure governance (e.g. EGMF).
2.1 Company-A SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-V.
2.2 Company-A OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being requested and:
2.2.1 based on its knowledge that required RAN resources are not available
internally, the SML, acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-C USA to
request service to get RAN coverage in the US. To achieve this, a candidate
API is the interface with the MnF that controls the exposure governance (e.g.
EGMF) of Company-C USA. Company-C USA, as the CSP, receives the service
request. Company-C USA SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS
being requested by Company-A. This service can be e.g. a network slice.
Company-C USA OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service
being requested, etc. Once completed, Company-C USA SML informs Company-A SML
that the exposed MnS which has been requested is now available to Company-A.
The Company-A SML can consume the eMnS from Company-C USA directly via its
SML.
2.2.3 acting as a CSC, issues a request to Company-B Spain to request service
to get RAN coverage in Spain. To achieve this, a candidate API is the
interface with the MnF that controls the exposure governance (e.g. EGMF) of
Company-B Spain. Company-B Spain, as the CSP, receives the service request.
Company-B Spain SML determines which service supports the exposed MnS being
requested by Company-A. This service can be e.g. a network slice. Company-B
Spain OSS / SML determines which network resources support the service being
requested, etc. Once completed, Company-B Spain SML informs Company-A SML that
the exposed MnS which has been requested is now available to Company-A. The
Company-A SML can consume the eMnS from Company-B Spain directly via its SML.
3\. Company-A (as the NSP) sends a reply to Company-V to inform that the
exposed MnS requested is now available to Company-V. The reply may also
include the authentication materials (e.g. key, token) for access to the
chosen exposed MnS.
NOTE 3: NSP may not have network at all. In this case, if and how NSP can
offer exposure services to NSC is FFS.
NOTE 4: in this use case, aspects related to Transport Network(s) are not
addressed as they are out of 3GPP scope.
## 5.7 Network slice management capability consumption
### 5.7.1 Description
A use case of network slice management capability consumption can be described
as follows:
1\. In order to enable the consumption of network slice related eMnS, a NSC
firstly makes a contract with the NSP, which contains the agreement and
conditions for consuming an eMnS. The condition can be a certain constraint of
eMnS consumption based on the contract, e.g. the usage quota of certain eMnS,
the usage frequency of certain eMnS, etc. The NSC negotiates its specific
requirements for the network slice management capability consumption with the
NSP. The negotiation can be done via the following ways:
a) For NSC which is small enterprise, it can directly have a view on the
network slice related management capability through the BSS (e.g. by using
Product Catalog). Based on that, the NSC can select the network slice related
eMnSs which will be covered by the contract.
b) For NSC which is large enterprise (i.e. Internet giants that have their own
service customer), it can select the network slice related eMnSs that are
available to be exposed offline (e.g. through a F2F meeting). The NSP can
proceed with the service ordering through BSS based on the contract.
2\. The BSS may interact with the OSS in order to complete certain
configuration (i.e. permission regarding what eMnS, optionally under what
condition, can be consumed) regarding the consumption of eMnS based on the
customized requirement from the NSC.
3\. NSP authorizes NSC to consume the eMnS as defined in the contract, and
provides the relevant authentication keys to NSC.
4\. The NSC can get access to the network slice related management capability
offered by eMnS producer within 3GPP management system. The access may need
the interaction with BSS (e.g. through Service Catalog).
### 5.7.2 Issue and gaps
Gap:
NSC needs to apply for the access of network slice management capability
through BSS. However, there is no discussion and agreement on whether an eMnS
is exposed transparently through the BSS or being processed through a
dedicated exposure platform before exposing to the NSC.
The definition and the format of permission for the consumption of network
slice related eMnS and its potential impact on internal interface with BSS is
not discussed in current SA5 work.
# 6 Potential requirements for network management capability exposure
## 6.1 Potential requirements related to eMnS discovery service
  * **REQ-NSCE-01** The 3GPP management system may provide capabilities allowing to discover exposed MnS and related eMnS producers that are managing a specific managed entity.
  * **REQ-NSCE-02** The 3GPP management system may have functionalities to register exposed MnS to an appropriate discovery service/system (e.g. eMnS discovery service producer).
> Editor's notes: Whether the discovery system is internal or external of 3GPP
> management system is FFS.
## 6.2 Potential requirements related to exposure interface via OSS
  * **REQ-NSCE-03** The 3GPP management system may provide capabilities to authenticate and authorize NSC to consume exposed MnS directly from 3GPP management system.
# 7 Possible solutions for network management capability exposure
> Editors note: reallocate section according to agreement in S5-221089.
## 7.1 Possible solution for "exposed MnS support to discovery systems" --
Scenario 5.4
The steps of the solution are as follows:
  1. A MnS consumer configures using the appropriate MnS (for example the generic provisioning service) the details of the external discovery service location and other supporting details (for e.g., authentication and authorization). Further, the detail on which parts of which MnS (component A) IOCs and which instances of the corresponding MOI (component B) and corresponding data (component C) can be registered with the discovery service/system. As an example, the operator may want to register her the ability to provision (Management object A) a particular slice type (NSSAI-ID) at a certain coverage area (coverageArea item 6.3.3 TS28.541) with some additional details (example: supported latency or maxNumberofUEs or delayTolerance) to an external discovery service or system.
  2. In addition to the information of what is externally registered, information relating to the address of the exposed MnS needs to be provided. This could be default information based on the operator in the external discovery system or in case of a trusted discovery the address of the actual exposed management service.
  3. The 3GPP Management System registers the exposed management component A, B and C as configured in step 1 to the appropriate external discovery service/system.
  4. Eventually, if any of the exposure details change -- for example the same slice type can now be supported in a new coverageArea -- the registration to the external discovery system may now need to be updated.
Editor's note: provide a picture explain the operator and JV relationship
below.
The solution for the trust issue between the three MnS discovery system owner,
MnS consumer and the MnS producer is scenario dependent. Let's take for
example a multi-operator network scenario. In this scenario let's take
operator A as an MnS producer, a joint venture of multiple operators as a MnS
discovery system owner and operator B as an MnS consumer. Both Operator A and
Operator B have business relations with the joint venture thereby creating a
trust relationship between Operator A and the joint venture (JV) AND operator
B and the joint venture. The JV provides the authorization and authentication
details for each of the operator to use the discovery service. Operator A may
then expose aspects of its MnS that it considers ok to expose with the JV.
Operator B can then discover the MnS offered by operator A and contact
operator A to access them. If operator B requires a higher level of access
than operator A provides in the JV by default, then they need to form a new
business relationship.
## 7.2 Possible solutions for eMnS discovery service
To enable communication between eMnS consumers and eMnS producers, eMnS
consumers need a mechanism to discover eMnS producers that are available in
the 3GPP management system, this is called eMnS discovery service.
When the operator decides to expose a management service (eMnS), the operator
must decide which MnS(s) should be exposed, which internal MnS operations
should be abstracted/filtered, and which internal MnS data should be
abstracted/filtered. As part of this decision, the operator may use the MnS
Discovery Service to collect information. The operator exposes the MnS and
registers it with the eMnS discovery service, this may be done using an EGMF.
The eMnS discovery service consumer sends a request to appropriate discovery
service (e.g. eMnS discovery service producer) to obtain the eMnS data.
The eMnS discovery service consumer sends a request to appropriate discovery
service (e.g. eMnS discovery service producer) to obtain the eMnS data.
Editor's Note: Whether the use of an MnS discovery service to collect
information about services for exposure is subject to standardization by SA5
is FFS.
## 7.3 Potential solution for MnS discovery service for exposure
The MnS data can be accessed by different kinds of discovery service consumers
based on different use cases.
In some use cases, the exposure usually goes through BSS. The BSS can obtain
MnS data from the MnS discovery service on behalf of the NSC.
There are different scenarios where the NSC could directly interact with the
MnS producer exposure interface via OSS.
{width="5.322916666666667in" height="2.21875in"}
Figure 7.3.1 Procedure for MnS discovery service for exposure via BSS
1) The BSS requests for MnS data from the MnS discovery service for NSC on
behalf of the NSC. The MnS data may contain the address of the exposed
producer.
2) MnS discovery service producer for NSC provides discovery service to NSC.
The MnS discovery service producer returns the MnS data to BSS. The BSS may
provide discovery service to NSC based on MnS data.
3) The NSC completes the product order via the interaction with BSS_NSP.
{width="6.239583333333333in" height="3.3020833333333335in"}
Figure 7.3.2 Procedure for MnS discovery service for exposure via OSS
1) The NSC completes a product order via the interaction with BSS_NSP. As a
result of the product ordering, the NSC obtains the address of the MnS
discovery service producer for exposure.
> NOTE: MnS discovery service producer providing discovery service for the
> exposed MnS to external.
2) The NSC executes authentication and authorization for accessing MnS
discovery service.
3) The NSC requests for MnS data for exposed MnS from the MnS discovery
service. The exposed MnS data for exposed MnS may contain the information of
the exposed MnS instance and the address of the exposed MnS producer. The MnS
data for exposed MnS is the data for authorized NSC to identify proper MnS
producer which produces the exposed MnS.
4) The MnS discovery service returns the MnS data for exposed MnS to the NSC.
5) The NSC requests the services from the target exposed MnS producer.
6) The target exposed MnS producer returns the responses.
## 7.4 Potential solution for exposed MnS consumption via OSS interface
This clause introduces the solution for the use case described in clause 5.6,
where the NSC can directly interact with OSS for the consumption of exposed
MnS.
{width="5.342165354330708in" height="4.269410542432196in"}
Figure 7.4.1 Exposed MnS consumption via OSS interface
1\. The NSP receives a product order from the NSC through BSS. The interface
used towards the BSS is specified by TM Forum specifications [2].
2\. The BSS processes the product order and when applicable converts it to
appropriate service order(s) for the OSS Service Management Layer. This is
internal to BSS and there are no interface requirements.
3\. The OSS Service Management Layer receives a service order from the BSS.
The interface used is specified by TM Forum specifications [3].
4\. The MnS producer for NSC (e.g. NSMF) on the OSS Service Management Layer
processes the service order and when applicable converts it to appropriate
request(s) for the OSS Network Management Layer as requests for management and
orchestration of resources. In addition, MnS producer on the OSS Service
Management Layer can decides to expose MnS directly from OSS_SML and prepares
the address of MnS discovery service producer for NSC that can be accessed by
the NSC and related authorization information (e.g. token) for accessing the
MnS discovery service for NSC. The service order may trigger a procedure of
resource order with OSS_NML.
5\. The MnS producer for NSC on OSS Service Management Layer notifies the BSS
that the service order has been completed. In addition, the notification may
contain the address of producer that manages the MnS discovery service for NSC
to access and also identities of the related MOIs which is related to the
exposed MnSs that the NSC requests. The interface used is specified by TM
Forum specifications [3].
NOTE 1: The MnS discovery service producer for NSC can be within the OSS or
outside the OSS.
6\. The BSS notifies the NSC that the product order has been completed. In
addition, the address of MnS discovery producer for NSC and the related
authorization information (e.g. token) for accessing the MnS discovery service
for NSC are sent to the NSC by the product order completed message. The
interface used the interface towards the BSS is specified by TM Forum
specifications [2].
7\. If the notification in step 6 contains the address of MnS discovery
service producer for NSC, the NSC conducts authentication and authorization
for accessing exposed MnS discovery service.
8\. After the authentication and authorization, the NSC obtains the MnS data
for exposed MnS, which contains the information of the exposed MnS instance
and the address of target MnS producer for NSC. The MnS data for exposed MnS
is the data for authorized NSC to identify proper MnS producer which produces
the exposed MnS.
9\. After obtaining the information of the MnS data for exposed MnS, the NSC
identifies the target MnS producer for NSC and consumes the exposed MnS. To
consider the security, the MnS producer may leverage a dedicated MnF which
controls the exposure governance as a proxy for exposing MnS.
## 7.5 Solution for internal service order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.2. For each step in the procedure Table 7.5.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
**Step** **Description in step** **Interface** **Reference** **Description in
reference**
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
service order External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 4 None - - 5 resource
order Internal TM Forum TMF652 [4] Resource Order 6 Internal 3GPP TS 28.531
[5], clause 6.5.1- AllocateNsi 7 resource order completed Internal TM Forum
TMF652 [4] Service Order State Change Event 8 service order completed External
TM Forum TMF641 [3] Product Order State Change Event 9 product order completed
External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order State Change Event
_Table 7.5.1_ Solution for internal service order after receiving product
order
## 7.6 Solution for external product order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.3. For each step in the procedure Table 7.6.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
**Step** **Description in step** **Interface** **Reference** **Description in
reference**
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 4 None - - 5 service
order Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 6 None - - 7 service order
completed Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order State Change Event 8
product order completed External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order State
Change Event 9 product order completed External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product
Order State Change Event
_Table 7.6.1_ Solution for external product order after receiving product
order
## 7.7 Solution for external service order after receiving product order
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.4. For each step in the procedure Table 7.7.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to a CSP or
internal to an NSP, or External between a CSP and an NSP, or None in case the
step is an internal process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
**Step** **Description in step** **Interface** **Reference** **Description in
reference**
* * *
1 product order External TM Forum TMF622 [2] Product Order 2 None - - 3
service order Internal TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 4 None - - 5 service
order External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service Order 6 None - - 7 notify service
order completed Internal 3GPP TS 28.202 [6] Service Order Completed
Notification 8 service order completed External TM Forum TMF641 [3] Service
Order State Change Event 9 service order completed External TM Forum TMF641
[3] Service Order State Change Event
_Table 7.7.1_ Solution for external product order after receiving product
order
## 7.8 Potential solution for product onboarding
_This clause describes a solution for the procedure described in clause_
4.1.4.5. For each step in the procedure Table 7.8.1 identifies the following:
\- if an interface is Internal to an operator, i.e. internal to the NSP or
External between a NSC and NSP, or None in case the step is an internal
process and there is no interface requirement,
\- which operation or notification is used by that step, and
\- which specification describes the interface (stage 2 and stage 3).
**Step** **Description in step** **Interface** **Reference** **Description in
reference**
* * *
1 service discovery Internal 3GPP TS 28.537[10], clause 5- Editor's Note:
further details are FFS 2 None - - 3 request list of available services
Internal TM Forum TMF633[12] Service Catalogue 4 provide list of available
services Internal TM Forum TMF633[12] Service Catalogue 5 None - - 6 product
catalogue request External TM Forum TMF620[13] Product Catalogue 7 product
catalogue External TM Forum TMF620[13] Product Catalogue
_Table 7.8.1_ Solution for product onboarding
# 8 Conclusion and Recommendation
## 8.X Issue #X
## 8.Y Issue #Y
###### ## Annex A (informative): Appendix with UML code of the sequence
diagrams
A.1 UML code for Figure 4.1.4.2.1
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_SML
participant OSS_NML
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> OSS_SML : service order(s)
OSS_SML --> OSS_SML : process service order(s)
OSS_SML --> OSS_NML : resource order(s)
OSS_NML --> OSS_NML : process resource order(s)
OSS_SML \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant BSS_CSP #lightgrey
participant OSS_CSP #lightgrey
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_CSP : product order(s)
BSS_CSP --> BSS_CSP : process product order(s)
BSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : process service order(s)
BSS_CSP \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
autonumber
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_NSP
participant BSS_CSP #lightgrey
participant OSS_CSP #lightgrey
NSC --> BSS_NSP : product order
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP : process product order
BSS_NSP --> OSS_NSP : service order(s)
OSS_NSP --> OSS_NSP : process service order(s)
OSS_NSP --> OSS_CSP : service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> OSS_CSP : process service order(s)
OSS_CSP --> BSS_CSP : notify service order(s) completed
OSS_NSP \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant OSS_SML
participant OSS_NML
OSS_SML--> OSS_NML: 1. service discovery
OSS_SML---> OSS_SML: 2. configure the available MnS service
opt
BSS_NSP -->OSS_SML: 3. request list of available services
end
OSS_SML---> BSS_NSP: 4. provide list of available services
BSS_NSP --> BSS_NSP: 5. configure the eMnS service for exposure
NSC --> BSS_NSP: 6. product catalogue request
BSS_NSP --> NSC: 7. product catalogue
\@enduml
A.6 UML code for 7.3.1
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant MnS_Discovery_service_producer
BSS_NSP --> MnS_Discovery_service_producer: 1. request to obtain MnS data
MnS_Discovery_service_producer --> BSS_NSP: 2. response for MnS data
Ref over NSC, BSS_NSP : 3. procedure of product order
\@enduml
A.7 UML code for 7.3.2
\@startuml
skinparam sequence {
ArrowColor Black
ActorBorderColor Black
ActorBackgroundColor White
ParticipantBorderColor Black
ParticipantBackgroundColor White
LifeLineBorderColor Black
BackGroundColor \> Black
}
skinparam NoteBackgroundColor White
skinparam NoteBorderColor Black
skinparam shadowing false
hide footbox
actor NSC
participant BSS_NSP
participant MnS_Discovery_service_producer
participant OSS_SML
Ref over NSC, OSS_SML: 1. procedure of product order
Ref over NSC, OSS_SML: 2. authentication and authorization for accessing
exposed MnS discovery service
NSC --> MnS_Discovery_service_producer: 3. request to obtain MnS data for
exposed MnS
MnS_Discovery_service_producer --> NSC: 4. response for exposed MnS data for
exposed MnS
NSC ---> OSS_SML: 5. request to use an exposed MnS
OSS_SML---> NSC: 6. response for using an exposed MnS
\@enduml
#