# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on concept, use cases and potential requirements
related to the management aspects of MOCN network sharing, and the potential
solutions for 5G network sharing management architecture.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.130: \" Telecommunication management; Network sharing; Concepts
and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MOCN Multiple Operator Core Network
MOP Master Operator
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
POP Participating Operator
# 4 Concepts and overview
Network sharing is a mechanism to reduce network costs and to efficiently
utilize network capacity, which is very important for network operators. The
motivation for management aspects of network sharing is to provide the
enhanced capabilities to suit the new demands from the sharing mechanism.
For network sharing, enhancing NR NRM for 5G MOCN network sharing scenarios
has not reached a consensus yet. Judging from the current discussion of WI
MANS, some scenarios and requirements may not be satisfied in this R17 stage,
and it is uncertain whether these scenarios and requirements will be excluded
in the future. The management requirements for MOCN with same and multiple
Cell Identity broadcast scenarios are not clear either.
To solve the problem, the present document identifies and captures all the
existing valuable inputs involving concept, use cases, potential requirements
and NR NRM support of MOCN network sharing scenarios, as well as potential
solutions for 5G network sharing management architecture.
# 5 Scenarios and key issues
## 5.1 Scenario #1 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with same Cell Identity
broadcast
### 5.1.1 Scenario description
For NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with same cell identity broadcast scenario,
different POPs use the same NR Cell Identity but different PLMN Id, which is
captured by following figure in TS 32.130 [1].
{width="2.4791666666666665in" height="2.0694444444444446in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with same cell identity broadcast
scenario
### 5.1.2 Management requirements
**Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-1**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure NgC and NgU individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-2**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure PLMNId individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Per-CON-3**. The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to collect and report some measurements (e.g. active UEs
measurements, packet delay measurements) in PLMN granularity for each POP.
### 5.1.3 Potential solution
1\. For the **Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-1,** individual EP_NgC instance and
EP_NgU instance can be created and configured for each POP.
2\. For the **Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Cfg-CON-2,** the attribute \"PLMNInfoList\"
in NRCellDU IOC in existing NR NRM can be used to represent the POPs supported
by the cell.
3\. For the **Req-MOCN_SameCellId_Per-CON-3,** existing PLMN granularity
subcounter can be used to present operator granularity measurements.
## 5.2 Scenario #2 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with multi Cell Identity
broadcast
### 5.2.1 Scenario description
For NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast
scenario, different POPs use different PLMN Id, NR Cell Identity and TAC,
which is captured by following figure.
{width="3.8819444444444446in" height="2.8194444444444446in"}
Figure 5.2.2-1 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing with multiple cell identity
broadcast scenario
### 5.2.2 Management requirements
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-1** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure NgC and NgU individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-2** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure PLMN-IdentityInfo (including PLMNId, NR Cell
Identity, TAC) individually for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Perf-CON-3** The 3GPP management system of the MOP
shall have the capability to collect and report some measurements (e.g. active
UEs measurements, packet delay measurements) in PLMN granularity for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-4** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the common F1 interface for all POPs.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-5** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the individual F1 interface for each POP.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-6** The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall
have the capability to configure the individual NR cell relation individually
for each POP.
### 5.2.3 Potential solution
1\. For the **Req-MOCN_MultiCellId_Cfg-CON-1,** individual EP_NgC instance and
EP_NgU instance can be created and configured for each POP.
2\. For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-2** , following enhanced NR NRM
solution is proposed:
Introduce new OperatorDU \> name-contained by GNBDUFunction\>
to represent operator specific gNB level information (including operator
specific gNB Id, gNBIdlength), and new NROperatorCellDU\> name-
contained by OperatorDU\> to represent operator specific cell level
information (including operator specific nRTAC, CelllocalId, PLMNInfoList).
Which means individual OperatorDU instance and NROperatorCellDU needs to be
created and configured for each POP.
{width="4.976913823272091in" height="2.5277777777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1 NR NRM enhancement to suport NG-RAN sharing MOCN network
sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast feature
OperatorDU\>
The OperatorDU \> contains attributes to support operator specific gNB
level information (including gNB Id, gNBIdLength) to support 5G Multi-Operator
Core Network (5G MOCN) network sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast
feature. Individual instance of OperatorDU \> should be created and
configured for each POP. When configured the attributes override those in
parent GNBDUFunction instance.
The OperatorDU\> is only used to support MOCN with multiple cell
identity broadcast feature. If the MOCN with multiple Cell Identity broadcast
feature is not supported, this IOC is not used.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable gNBId M T T F T gNBIdLength M T T F T
* * *
NROperatorCellDU\>
The NROperatorCellDU \> contains attributes to support operator
specific cell level information (including cellLocalId, pLMNInfoList, nRTAC)
to support 5G Multi-Operator Core Network (5G MOCN) network sharing with
multiple Cell Identity broadcast feature. Individual instance of
NROperatorCellDU \> should be created and configured for each POP. When
configured the attributes override those in associated NRCellDU instance.
The NROperatorCellDU \> is only used to support MOCN with multiple cell
identity broadcast feature. If the MOCN with multiple cell identity broadcast
feature is not supported, this IOC is not used.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable isInvariant
isNotifyable cellLocalId M T T F T pLMNInfoList M T T F T nRTAC CM T T F T
Attribute related to role  
nRCellDURef M T T F T
* * *
Following two updates are needed for GNBDUFunction IOC and NRCellDU IOC in the
existing NR NRM:
\- The Support Qualifier for attribute \"gNBId \" and \" gNBIdLength \" in
existing GNBDUFunction IOC needs to be changed to \"CM\", the condition is \"
If MOCN Network Sharing is configured the value is not used \"
\- The Support Qualifier for attribute \"**cellLocalId** \" , \"pLMNInfoList\"
and \"nRTAC\" in existing NRCelDU IOC needs to be changed to \"CM\", the
condition is \" If MOCN Network Sharing is configured the value is not used \"
3\. For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-3** , Operator specific
measurements can be collected and reported within OperatorDU\> and
NROperatorCellDU\>, Operator agnostic measurements can be collected and
reported within GNBDUFunction\> and NRCellDU\>.Editor\'s Note:
above potential solution need to be revisited according to further discussion
based on other existing requirements or new requirements
4\. For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-4,** existing EP_F1C instance and
EP_F1U instance name contained by GNBDUFunction IOC can be used to represent
the common F1 interface configuration for all POPs.
5\. For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-5,** following NR NRM fragment
needs to be added.
{width="5.097222222222222in" height="0.5763888888888888in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1 NRM for F1 related EPs to support individual F1 interface for
NG-RAN MOCN network sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast scenario
For the scenario of individual F1 interface for NG-RAN MOCN network sharing
with multiple Cell Identity broadcast, EP_F1C and EP_F1U name contained by
OperatorDU can be used to represent individual F1 interface for each POP.
6\. For the **Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-6,** individual NRCellRelation
instances can be created and configured per POP.
## 5.3 Scenario #3 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing
### 5.3.1 Scenario description
NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing scenario is captured by following figure in TS
32.130 [1]. This is to support network sharing scenarios for the existing NRM.
This scenario the same with scenario#1 but with different requirements and
potential solutions. In addition to being oriented to public users, 5G
networks are also oriented to a variety of industry applications, and should
be integrated into more flexible and cost-effective service methods.
{width="3.5277777777777777in" height="2.9444444444444446in"}
Figure 5.3.1-1 NG-RAN MOCN Network Sharing scenario
### 5.3.2 Management requirements
**Req-MOCN-CellId-Cfg-CON-1,** the **3GPP management system of the MOP shall**
support to query and count all performance, load and otherstatistical
indicators generated by physical and logical equipment network elements
(including shared and non-shared gNB).
**Req-MOCN-CellId-Cfg-CON-2,** the **3GPP management system of the MOP and POP
shall** support to query all the alarm information generated by all physical
equipment and logical network elements (including shared and non-shared gNBs).
### 5.3.3 Potential solution
To the **Req-MOCN-CellId-Cfg-CON-1 and Req-MOCN-CellId-Cfg-CON-2 ,** according
to the above two options, we propose a new option(figure below), which adds
IOC LogicalDU, inherited from ManagedFunction IOC. The LogicalDU includes IOC
LogicalCellDU. The arrow1 means a NRCellDU may associate to several
NRLogicalCellDU. This can be created and configured specific for one operator
(including MOP and POP). This solution combines option 1 and option 2
together, the achitecture looks more clear.
{width="5.854166666666667in" height="2.2569444444444446in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1 NR NRM enhancement to suport NG-RAN sharing MOCN network
sharing
> New IOC **LogicalDUFunction**
The new IOC LogicalDUFunction at the same level as the original GNBDUFunction:
split the gNBId and gNBIdLength of GNBDUFunction into LogicalDUFunction, and
mark the original attribute as optional:
The original GNBDUFunction attribute list, updated with yellow as the
conditional configuration, not configured when the network is shared.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier gNB­DUId M gNBDUName O gNBId CM gNBIdLength
CM rimRSReportConf O
* * *
For the new IOC LogicalDUFunction, the IOC exists in the network sharing
scenario, otherwise it does not exist.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier gNBId M gNBIdLength M
* * *
> New IOC **LogicalCellDU**
The new IOC LogicalCellDU is at the same level as the original NRCellDU, and
the two are associated through nRCellDuRef.
In the original NRCellDU attribute list, update the yellow item as the
conditional configuration:
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier cellLocalId CM operationalState M
administrativeState M cellState M pLMNInfoList CM nRPCI M nRTAC CM arfcnDL M
arfcnUL CM arfcnSUL CM **bSChannelBwDL** M ssbFrequency CM ssbPeriodicity M
ssbSubCarrierSpacing CM ssbOffset M ssbDuration M **bSChannelBwUL** CM
**bSChannelBwSUL** CM
* * *
The new IOC LogicalCellDU, the IOC exists in the network sharing scenario,
otherwise it does not exist.
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier cellLocalId M pLMNInfoList M nRTAC CM
administrativeState M Attribute related to role  
nRCellDURef M
* * *
## 5.4 Scenario #4 MOCN NG-RAN sharing with multiple CellIds
### 5.4.1 Scenario description
For MOCN NG-RAN sharing with multiple cell identity broadcast scenario,
different POPs use different PLMN Id, NR Cell Identity and TAC. For this
scenario, several requirements have been identified which are listed in clause
5.4.2. To fulfil these requirements, the enhancement of the NRMs is needed.
### 5.4.2 Mangement requirements
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Cfg-CON-1** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability to configure PLMN-IdentityInfo (including PLMNId, CellId, TAC)
individually for each supported network operator.
**Req-MOCN-MultiCellId-Perf-CON-2** The 3GPP management system shall have the
capability to collect and report some measurements (e.g. active UEs
measurements, packet delay measurements) in PLMN granularity for different
network operator.
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-1 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to manage** both the non-shared network elements and shared network
elements in a NG-RAN network at the same time.
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-2 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to** configure the NG-RAN network element to start the sharing of
one currently non-shared NG-RAN network element or stop the sharing of one
currently shared NG-RAN network element.
**REQ-NS_NG-CON-3 The 3GPP management system of the MOP shall support a
capability to configure the POP-specific attributes of the shared NG-RAN
individually based on the POPs\' requirements.**
### 5.4.3 Potential solution
To fulfil the requirements listed in clause 5.4.2, the following enhancements
are proposed.
\- Add new IOCs DUCommonPart and CellCommonPart
{width="5.7209437882764655in" height="2.596058617672791in"}
\- DUCommonPart(O)
This IOC represents the common part of a shared DU.
Note: If NG-RAN sharing with multiple Cell Identities is not supported, then
this IOC is not used.
The DUCommonPart IOC includes attributes inherited from TOP IOC and the
following attributes:
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable
* * *
masterPLMNId M T T F T **sharedDUId** M T T F T
> **CellCommonPart (O)**
This IOC represents the common part of a physical cell on a DU.
Note: If NG-RAN sharing with multiple Cell Identities is not supported, then
this IOC is not used.
The CellCommonPart IOC includes attributes inherited from TOP IOC and the
following attributes:
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Support | is | is | **isInv | isNo | | ttribute | Q | Readable | Writable | ariant** | tifyable | | name | ualifier | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | physical | M | T | T | F | T | | CellDUId | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | operatio | M | T | F | F | T (see | | nalState | | | | | Note 2) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | adm | M | T | T | F | T (see | | inistrat | | | | | Note 2) | | iveState | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | M | T | F | F | T (see | | ellState | | | | | Note 2) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | nRPCI | M | T | T | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ssbF | CM | T | T | F | T | | requency | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ssbPer | M | T | T | F | T | | iodicity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ssbS | CM | T | T | F | T | | ubCarrie | | | | | | | rSpacing | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | s | M | T | T | F | T | | sbOffset | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ssb | M | T | T | F | T | | Duration | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | arfcnDL | M | T | T | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | arfcnUL | CM | T | T | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | arfcnSUL | CM | T | T | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | M | T | T | F | T | | _bSChann | | | | | | | elBwDL_ _| | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | CM | T | T | F | T | |_ bSChann | | | | | | | elBwUL**| | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | CM | T | T | F | T | | bSChanne | | | | | | | lBwSUL** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to role | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | nR | M | T | T | F | T | | SectorCa | | | | | | | rrierRef | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | bWPRef | M | T | T | F | T | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | nRFreq | CO | T | T | F | T | | uencyRef | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | vict | CM | T | T | F | T | | imSetRef | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | aggress | O | T | T | F | T | | orSetRef | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | No state | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | pagation | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | implied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | conveyed | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | otifySta | | | | | | | teChange | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
\- Change support qualifier of existing IOC NRCellDU
{width="6.69375in" height="3.775in"}
Condition: NG-RAN sharing with multiple Cell Identities is not supported.
\- Change the relationships of IOCs BWP and NRSectorCarrier for the MOCN NG-
RAN sharing with multiple Cell-Ids scenario
{width="6.69375in" height="2.9819444444444443in"}
# 6 Analysis and comparison of potential solutions
## 6.1 Analysis and comparison of potential solutions of enhancement of NR NRM
to support NG-RAN sharing
For the enhancement of NR NRM to support NG-RAN sharing, several potential
solutions have been discussed, which can be mainly classified into the
following types:
**Potential solution 1** : Add new IOCs (i.e. DUCommonPart, CellCommonPart) to
represent the common part and use the existing IOCs (i.e. GNBDUFunciton and
NRCellDU) to represent the operator specific part, see clause 5.4.
**Potential solution 2** : Add new IOCs (i.e. OperatorDU, NROperatorCellDU) to
represent the operator specific part and use the existing IOCs (i.e.
GNBDUFunciton and NRCellDU) to represent the common part, the new added IOCs
are name contained by GNBDUFunction; see clause 5.2.
**Potential solution 3** : Add new IOCs (i.e. LogicalDU, NRLogicalCellDU) to
represent the operator specific part and use the existing IOCs (i.e.
GNBDUFunciton and NRCellDU) to represent the common part, the new added IOCs
are name contained by ManagedElement; see clause 5.3.
Based on the detail description of potential solutions listed above, the
analysis and comparison is collected in the table below. In the table, the
potential solution 2 and potential solution 3 are merged in one column because
there are only small differences between these two solutions.
+---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | Scenarios/Issues | Potential solution | Potential solution | | | | 1 | 2/3 | +===+====================+====================+====================+ | 1 | Non-sharing | NRM: no change | NRM: no change | | | scenario; | | | | | | F1: no change | F1: no change | | | RAN sharing | | | | | without | | | | | multi-CellIds | | | | | scenario | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | RAN sharing with | Add new IOCs: | Add new IOCs: | | | multi- CellIds -- | DUCommonPart, | | | | change on NRM(s) | CellCommonPart; | Solution 2: | | | | | OperatorDU, | | | | Change support | NROperatorCellDU; | | | | qualifier of | | | | | existing IOC | Solution 3: | | | | (NRCellDU: 18 | LogicalDU, | | | | attributes) | NRLogicalCellDU; | | | | | | | | | Higher impact on | Change support | | | | existing NRM, and | qualifier of | | | | higher data | existing IOC | | | | migration required | (NRCellDU: 3 | | | | | attributes, | | | | | GNBDUFunction: 2 | | | | | attributes) | | | | | | | | | | Lesser impact on | | | | | existing NRM, and | | | | | lesser data | | | | | migration required | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | RAN sharing with | Pro: No change | 2 new F1 | | | multi- CellIds -- | | interfaces will be | | | change on F1 | | added. | | | interface（F1-C | | | | | and F1-U） | | In the mixed | | | | | network (i.e. some | | | | | gNBs are shared | | | | | with | | | | | multi-CellIds, and | | | | | the other gNBs are | | | | | not), the gNBs not | | | | | shared with | | | | | multi-CellIds will | | | | | use the F1 between | | | | | GNBDUFunction and | | | | | GNBCUCPFuntion/ | | | | | GNBCUUPFunction, | | | | | and the gNBs | | | | | shared with | | | | | multi-CellIds will | | | | | use the F1 between | | | | | Op | | | | | eratorDU/LogicalDU | | | | | and | | | | | GNBCUCPFuntion/ | | | | | GNBCUUPFunction or | | | | | both. | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | The relationship | In the mixed | Pro: No change. | | | between | network (i.e. some | | | | GNBD | gNBs are shared | | | | UFunction/NRCellDU | with | | | | and | multi-CellIds, and | | | | B | the other gNBs are | | | | WP/NRSectorCarrier | not). the | | | | | B | | | | | WP/NRSectorCarrier | | | | | will be | | | | | name-contained by | | | | | DUCommonPart, and | | | | | referred by | | | | | CellCommonPart. | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | management | Have the | impossible to | | | granularity on | capability to | perform | | | cell level | perform | administrative | | | | administrative | management | | | | management | operation on | | | | operation on | NROperatorCell | | | | operator specific | DU/NRLogicalCellDU | | | | cell level (e.g. | level (e.g. cannot | | | | block/unblock | block/unblock | | | | using | without | | | | a | a | | | | dministrativeState | dministrativeState | | | | attribute) | attribute) | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | Note: There is no | | | | | requirement for | | | | | administrative | | | | | management | | | | | operation on | | | | | operator specific | | | | | cell level in the | | | | | present | | | | | document**.** | | | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 6 | Relationship of | Name-contianed by | Solution 2: | | | new added IOCs | ManagedElement | OperatorDU is | | | | | name-contained by | | | | Cannot get the | GNBDUFunction | | | | relationship of | | | | | the operator | The relationship | | | | specific part and | of the operator | | | | common part | specific part and | | | | directly, the | common part can be | | | | references need to | got directly | | | | be used. | | | | | | In hot backup | | | | In hot backup | scenario, all the | | | | scenario, the POP | OperatorDUs need | | | | specific part can | to be deleted and | | | | be switched to the | re-created when | | | | standby gNB (the | the switch from | | | | common part) by | active gNB to | | | | modification of | standby gNB is | | | | the reference, | needed. | | | | re-creation of the | | | | | POP specific part | Solution 3: | | | | is not needed. | LogicalDU is | | | | | name-contained by | | | | | ManagedElement | | | | | | | | | | Same as solution 1 | +---+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
The following issues are identified in this study:
\- Concept, several use cases and potential requirements (such as isolation
requirement) related to the management aspects of MOCN network sharing
\- Several potential solutions for 5G network sharing management architecture
In conclusion, it is shown that this document identifies and captures some
existing valuable inputs involving concept, use cases, potential requirements
and NR NRM support of MOCN network sharing scenarios, as well as potential
solutions for 5G network sharing management architecture as required in
objectives. There are four scenarios of MOCN network sharing with different
potential requirements and solutions, and this can be adopted from one of them
or combination of some of them as recommendations for the work item of MANS.
#