# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This report is to study on enhancement of service based management
architecture.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies on the potential enhancement of service based
management architecture based on the existing 5G service-based management
architecture.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
NR; Multi-connectivity; Stage 2\".
[6] ETSI GS ZSM 002: "Zero-touch network and Service Management (ZSM);
Reference Architecture".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.510: \"Configuration Management (CM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.511: \"Configuration Management (CM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.512: \"Configuration Management (CM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.513: \"Configuration Management (CM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.515: \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.516: \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.517: \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.518: \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.520: \"Performance Management (PM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 28.521: \"Performance Management (PM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[17] 3GPP TS 28.522: \"Performance Management (PM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 28.523: \"Performance Management (PM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.526: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.527: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 28.528: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Stage 3\".
[23] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 32.103: \"Integration Reference Point (IRP) overview and usage
guide\".
[25] 3GPP TS 28.537: \"Management capabilities \".
[26] 3GPP TS 32.425: \"Performance measurements Evolved Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN\".
[27] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"5G performance measurements\".
[28] 3GPP TS 28.500, \"Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[29] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[30] 3GPP TS 32.662: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Kernel CM Information Service (IS)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 32.531: \"Telecommunication management; Software management
(SwM); Concepts and Integration Reference Point (IRP) Requirements\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.532: \"Telecommunication management; Software management
(SwM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.532: \"Telecommunication management; Software management
(SwM); Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[34] 3GPP TS 28.631: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements\".
[35] 3GPP TS 28.632: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[36] 3GPP TS 28.633: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions\".
[37] 3GPP TS 32.156 \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC); Model repertoire\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BSS Business Support System
MnS Management Service
PM Performance Management
_SBMA_ _Service Based Management Architecture_
WI Work Item
# 4 Issue investigations and potential issue solutions
## 4.1 Issue #1: Scope of specifications
### 4.1.1 Description
The scopes of specifications are not clear.
_**TS 28.533** [2] (the TS is only valid for 5G and exists in Rel-15 and 16):_
> _Scope:_
>
> _There is no limitation in the scope that the TS is only valid for 5G (or
> rather not valid for 2G, 3G and legacy 4G._
>
> _There are no borders for where the SBMA is valid, which gives some problems
> when dealing with external entities governed by other fora, e.g. interfaces
> with MANO, towards verticals, other operators etc. All that control is left
> to access control, which is not (yet) specified. There is a link with the
> studies FS_MNSAC and FS_NSCE._
>
> _References:_
>
> _28.510_ [7]_, 28.511_ [8]_, 28.512_ [9]_, 28.513_ [10]_, 28.515_ [11]_,
> 28.516_ [12]_, 28.517_ [13]_, 28.518_ [14]_, 28.520_ [15]_, 28.521_ [16]_,
> 28.522_ [17]_, 28.523_ [18]_, 28.525_ [19]_, 28.526_ [20]_, 28.527_ [21]
> _and 28.528_ [22] _are referred, but those TSs are not valid for 5G, They
> are used in Annex A.4, which is informative._
_**TS: 28.622** [23] (The TS is valid for 3G, 4G and 5G and exists in Rel-15
and 16):_
_This TS is made for IRP architecture, but is applied also for Service Based
Management Architecture, SBMA._
_Introduction:_
> _It is stated that the TS is part of a set that is used for management and
> orchestration of 5G._
_Scope:_
> _SBMA is not included according to scope. However, it is nothing is written
> whether the IRP architecture is valid for 5G. The scope does not say
> anything about this TS being valid for 5G (which the Introduction does)._
_The information that the TS is an IRP TS, with the information above in
Introduction and Scope a logical conclusion is that IRPs are allowed to be
used for 5G. However, the evolution of most IRP TSs has not been in par with
the SBMA TSs.\ There is a connection with the WI adNRM._
### 4.1.2 Potential solutions
#### 4.1.2.1 Solution #1-1 scope of 28.533 [2]
a. Intro _duce the limitation that the TS is not valid for 2G, 3G and 4G in
the Scope clause.\ b. Introduce text that 28.533 [2] is valid for SBMA.\ c.
Introduce text that access rights for interfaces are outside the scope tfor
this TS (this is be replaced with a TS number when such a TS is published).\
Also to be discussed whether access rights per external (and internal)
interfaces are to be documented in some way._
> Editor\'s Note: The internal and external access rights are connected to
> architectural discussions.
#### 4.1.2.2 Solution #1-2 new SBMA TS for Generic NRM
_a. Replace 28.622 [23] with a new 5G TS for SBMA_
_b. Keep 28.622 [23] to be valid for IRP methodology. Move all information
about SBMA to a new SBMA TS, i.e. endorse the contribution S5-213040._
> Editor\'s Note: Discuss and agree on whether it is allowed to use IRP
> methodology in 5G. The result shall be specified in the Scope of IRP and
> SBMA TSs (e.g. in IRP TSs it is specified that they are valid for 2G, 3G and
> 4G, while SBMA TSs it is specified that they are valid for 5G. Or it is
> specified in IRP TSs that they are valid for 2G, 3G, 4G and 5G, while SBMA
> TSs is specifying that they are valid for 5G).
4.1.2.3 Solution #1-3 scope of referred TSs in 28.533 [2]
_The TSs_ 28.510 [7], 28.511 [8], 28.512 [9], 28.513 [10], 28.515 [11], 28.516
[12], 28.517 [13], 28.518 [14], 28.520 [15], 28.521 [16], 28.522 [17], 28.523
[18], 28.525 [19], 28.526 [20], 28.527 [21] and 28.528 [22] _are present in an
informative annex so they can be removed._
## 4.2 Issue #2: Content errors
### 4.2.1 Description
_**TS 28.533** [2]:_
> _Content error:_
>
> _TS 32.103 [24] claims that 28.533 [2] is a \"generic\" TS (in contrast to
> \"5G specific\"), yet clause 4.6 is using 5G entities, clause 5.2 and 5.4
> are specifying 3GPP management system interactions with NFV MANO and NWDAF.\
> Clause 4.2.2: MnS component type A is said to be generic wrt operations and
> notifications. But is really PM notifications etc. generic?_
>
> _Clause 6 contains use cases and requirements, which should not be included
> in a stage 2 TS._
>
> _28.533 [2] clams to be the architecture TS for SBMA, but it does not have
> any boundaries for where it is valid (e.g. is service management and BSS
> included?)._
>
> _Implementation errors:_
>
> _Clause 6: The requirement tag_ **REQ-MnSD-FUN-X** _has not been given a
> number._
### 4.2.2 Potential solutions
#### 4.2.2.1 Solution #2-1 3GPP specific information in TSs classified as
generic
_28.533 [2] clause 4.2.2: Discuss whether operations and notifications used in
5G that are specific for a certain functionality is included in MnS component
A which is stated to be generic. The TS is to be changed accordingly to the
agreement._
Atl.1 _28.533 [2] should be generic, so the not generic content should be
deleted,\ Alt.2 28.533 [2] should be 5G specific, so all information about
generic and 5G specific TSs should be removed._
#### 4.2.2.2 Solution #2-2 for stage 1 content in stage 2 TS 28.533 [2]
_Move clause 6 in 28.533 [2] to 28.537 [25]._
_Change_ **REQ-MnSD-FUN-X** _to_ **REQ-MnSD-FUN-1 (but not in 28.533 [2])_._**
## 4.3 Issue #3: Reference errors
### 4.3.1 Description
> _**TS 28.533** [2]:_
>
> _32.101 [3] is referenced, but that TS is not valid for 5G. But the
> reference is only present in clause 2._
>
> _32.425 [26] is referenced, but that TS is not valid for 5G (also 28.552
> [27] refers to 32.425 [26])_
>
> _28.500 [28] is referenced, but that TS is not valid for 5G._
>
> _28.622 [23] is referenced, but that is an IRP TS (but used for 5G)._
>
> _**TS: 28.622** [23]:_
>
> _32.111-2 [29] is referenced, but the reference is only present in Clause
> 2._
>
> _32.662 [30] is referenced, but the reference is only present in Clause 2._
### 4.3.2 Potential solutions
#### 4.3.2.1 Solution #3-1 Make not used references void
a. _Make reference to 32.101 [3] void in 28.533 [2]._
b. _Make the references to 32.111-2 [29] and 32.662 [30] void in 28.622 [23]._
## 4.4 Issue #4: SBMA supporting manangement of 5G SA and NSA scenarios
### 4.4.1 Description
#### 4.4.1.1 Analysis of the existing specification capabilities
Service based management architecture (SBMA) and corresponding MnS are
introduced in 5G management architecture in TS 28.533 [2], and a different
management reference model (i.e. IRP) had been used to manage the network
before 5G era in 3GPP TS32.101 [3].
The analysis is based on the following understanding of the existing
specification capabilities:
  * The management mechanism of LTE supports interface IRP and NRM IRP models.
  * The management mechanism of 5G supports MnS which includes MnS component A (Operation/Notification), MnS component B (NRM models) and MnS component C (Alarm/Performance information).
  * LTE NRM (with enhancement of YAML or YANG solution set) can be used as MnS component type B and work together with MnS component type A.
#### 4.4.1.2 Management support for NG-RAN Overall Architecture
As description in 3GPP TS 38.300 [4], an NG-RAN node is either a gNB or an ng-
eNB which are interconnected with each other by means of the Xn interface and
connected with 5GC by means of the NG interface, more specifically to the AMF
by means of the NG-C interface and to the UPF by means of the NG-U interface.
The NG-RAN architecture is introduced in 3GPP TS 38.300 [4], as follows.
**Figure 4.4.1.2-1: NG-RAN Overall Architecture**
> NOTE: The ng-eNB node provides E-UTRA user plane and control plane protocol
> terminations towards the UE, and connects via the NG interface to the 5GC.
In order to provide management support for NG-RAN, the 3GPP management system
needs to support the management for gNB, ng-eNB and 5GC. There are potential 2
management options to support, as follows.
**NG-RAN management Option#1**
{width="4.236805555555556in" height="1.1541666666666666in"}
**Figure 4.4.1.2-2: NG-RAN management Option#1**
In the NG-RAN management Option#1:
  * The gNB management domain provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of gNB.
  * The ng-eNB management domain provides IRP (including interface IRP and NRM IRP) for the management of ng-eNB.
  * The 5GC management domain provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of 5GC.
**NG-RAN management Option#2**
{width="4.5055555555555555in" height="1.2291666666666667in"}
**Figure 4.4.1.2-3: NG-RAN management Option#2**
In the NG-RAN management Option#2:
  * The gNB management domain provides MnS(including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of gNB
  * The ng-eNB management domain provides MnS ((including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of ng-eNB. In this case, ng-eNB NRM used as MnS component type B, which means the YAML/YANG solution set for ng-eNB needs to be provided.
  * The 5GC management domain provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of 5GC.
#### 4.4.1.3 Management support for EN-DC Overall Architecture
NG-RAN supports Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity (MR-DC) operation whereby a UE
in RRC_CONNECTED is connected to two different nodes, one providing NR access
and the other one providing either E-UTRA or NR access. One node acts as the
MN and the other as the SN. The MN and SN are connected via a network
interface and at least the MN is connected to the core network (e.g. EPC).
The following figure illustrates the MR-DC with EPC (i.e. EN-DC) architecture
in TS 37.340 [5].
**Figure 4.4.1.2-4: EN-DC Overall Architecture**
> NOTE: the en-gNB node provides NR user plane and control plane protocol
> terminations towards the UE, and acts as Secondary Node in EN-DC.
In order to provide management support for EN-DC, 3GPP management system needs
to provide the management for en-gNB, eNB and EPC. There are also potential 2
management options to support, as follows.
**EN-DC management Option#1**
{width="3.8694444444444445in" height="1.101388888888889in"}
**Figure 4.4.1.2-5: EN-DC management option#1**
In EN-DC management option#1,
  * The en-gNB management domain provides MnS (including component type A, B and C) for management of en-gNB.
  * The eNB management domain provides IRP (including interface IRP and NRM IRP) for the management of eNB.
  * The EPC management domain provides IRP (including interface IRP and NRM IRP) for the management of EPC.
{width="4.241666666666666in" height="1.1895833333333334in"}
**Figure 4.4.1.2-6: EN-DC management Option#2**
**EN-DC management Option#2**
In EN-DC management option#2,
  * The en-gNB management domain provides MnS (including component type A, B and C) for management of en-gNB.
  * The eNB management domain provides MnS (including component type A, B and C) for management of eNB. In this case, eNB NRM used as MnS component type B, which means the YAML/YANG solution set for eNB NRM needs to be provided.
  * The EPC management domain provides MnS (including component type A, B and C) for management of EPC. In this case, EPC NRM used as MnS component type B, which means the YAML/YANG solution set for EPC NRM needs to be provided.
### 4.4.2 Potential solutions #4-1
The above potential 4 management mechanism options described in clause 4.4.1
could be classified as two management options, as follows.
{width="5.5159722222222225in" height="1.2041666666666666in"}
**Figure 4.4.2-1: Management Option A and B for 5G SA and NSA**
**Option#A (including above NG-RAN management Option#1 and EN-DC management
Option#1)**
  * The legacy nodes (e.g. eNB, ng-eNB and EPC) management domain provides IRP (including interface IRP and NRM IRP) for the management of legacy nodes.
  * The 5G nodes (e.g. gNB, en-gNB and 5GC) provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of 5G nodes.
**Option#B (including above NG-RAN management Option#2 and EN-DC management
Option#2)**
  * The legacy nodes (e.g. eNB, ng-eNB and EPC) management domain provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of legacy node. In this case, legacy node NRM used as MnS component type B, which means the YAML/YANG solution set for legacy node NRM needs to be provided.
  * The 5G nodes (e.g. gNB, en-gNB and 5GC) provides MnS (including MnS component type A, B and C) for the management of 5G nodes.
## 4.5 Issue #5: SBMA supporting management architecture and frameworks in
other SDOs
### 4.5.1 Description
There are some relevant works on the architectures and frameworks for
automation of management and orchestration in other Standards Developing
Organizations (SDOs) in industry. This clause provides a brief overview on the
works in the related SDOs.
### 4.5.2 Potential solutions
#### 4.5.2.1 ETSI ISG ZSM
##### 4.5.2.1.1 Introduction
The goal of ETSI ZSM is to enable zero-touch automated network and service
management in a multivendor environment.
As documented in ETSI GS ZSM 002 [6], it provides the ZSM framework reference
architecture as shown in figure 4.5.2.1.1-1 and distributed management and
data services, organized into management domains and integrated via an
integration fabric. The integration fabric is used to enable management
service consumption, communication, and integration with 3rd party management
systems. The cross-domain data service allows data sharing across domains. All
management services provide a set of capabilities for their consumption.
{width="4.740277777777778in" height="5.038194444444445in"}
**Figure 4.5.2.1.1-1: ZSM framework reference architecture**
In figure 4.5.2.1.1-1, every management domain, as well as the E2E service
management domain, provides a set of ZSM service capabilities by management
functions that expose and/or consume set of service end-points. The cross-
domain integration fabric facilitates providing capabilities and accessing
endpoints cross-domain. Some services are only provided and consumed locally
inside the management domain.
##### 4.5.2.1.2 Potential solutions #5-1
3GPP management service deployment framework based on ZSM framework reference
architecture is captured in clause 5.3 of TS 28.533 [2]. 3GPP SBMA is aligned
with ZSM framework reference architecture.
## 4.6 Issue #6: Software management feature in SBMA for 5G
### 4.6.1 Description
3GPP TS 32.531[31], TS 32.532[32], TS 32.533[33] define the requirements,
Information Solution and CORBA solution set for software management which
includes Automated software management and non-automated software management.
3GPP TS 28.525 [19] and 28.526[20] describes the management aspects for VNF
application software (i.e. 3GPP network function software), which includes
reusing the software Management IRP [32] for the interactation between NM and
EM. The management of software for VNF itself is not defined in 3GPP, which is
in the scope of ETSI NFV. Software Management IRP [32] is applicable for the
deployments using IRP Framework, which is not applicable for the deployments
using SBMA.
The 5G management is using the SBMA, so corresponding software management
solution is missing.
### 4.6.2 Potential solutions
Introduce a software management feature in SBMA which can be applicable for 5G
and future network is needed. The management of software for VNF itself is not
included, which is defined by ETSI NFV.
## 4.7 Issue #7: Inventory missing in 5G
### 4.7.1 Description
LTE has specifications about inventory: 3GPP TS 28.631 [34], 3GPP TS 28.632
[35] and 3GPP TS 28.633 [36] that define the requirements, Network Resource
Model Information Service (IS) and Solution Set. 5G does not have anything
similar, even though 5G also consist of software, hardware, network functions
and licences.
The attribute table is not follow the latest template documented in TS 32.156
[37], for example, the legal value for "isReadable",
"isWritable","isInvarient" and "isNotifyable" should be True or False.
### 4.7.2 Potential solutions
Update the specifications for inventory for 5G (using SBMA) in Rel-17.
Following are the proposed solutions to update the 3GPP TS 28.631 [34], 3GPP
TS 28.632 [35] and 3GPP TS 28.633 [36] to support inventory management in SBMA
for 5G.
  * Update the description of the Scope to indicate the inventory management specification is applicable for the deployment using service based management architecture and Clarify which objects are used in the SBMA and IRP architecture in 3GPP TS 28.631 [34], 3GPP TS 28.632 [35].
  * Update the attribute table in 3GPP TS 28.632 [35] to follow the latest template documented in TS 32.156 [37].
  * Provide the YANG and YAML solution sets for inventory management NRM in 3GPP TS 28.633 [36].
The Work item NSA_SBMA can be extended with this functionality.
## 4.8 Issue #8: Use of Models in SBMA
### 4.8.1 Description
**The following existing concepts are related to SBMA:**
  * TS 28.533 Management Function: A Management Function (MnF) is a logical entity playing the roles of MnS consumer and/or MnS producer. Management Function can be deployed as a separate entity or embedded in Network Function to provide MnS(s).
{width="3.375in" height="1.6597222222222223in"}
Figure 4.x-1: Examples of MnS deployment scenario
  * TR 21.905 Network Element: A discrete telecommunications entity which can be managed over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
  * TS 28.533 / TS 23.501 Network Function: A 3GPP adopted or 3GPP defined processing function in a network, which has defined functional behaviour and 3GPP defined interfaces.
**The following IOCs are specified:**
  * TS 28.622 ManagedElement IOC: This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the telecommunications network providing support and/or service to the subscriber. A ManagedElement IOC is used to represent a Network Element defined in TS 32.101[1] including virtualization or non-virtualization scenario.
  * TS 28.622 ManagedFunction IOC: This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several managed functions, a managed function may contain other managed functions as specified for the specific subclass. This IOC can represent a telecommunication function either realized by software running on dedicated hardware or realized by software running on NFVI.
### 4.x.2 Potential solutions
**This clause provides the description of using NRM to represent management of
management function, network function, and network element.**
**Management Function could be deployed in following different deployment
scenarios:**
  * **The Management Function can be deployed in management system, including**
    * **The Management Function deployed in domain management system.**
    * **The Management Function deployed in cross domain management system.**
  * **The Management Function deployed in Network Element.**
**Management Functions need to be managed as managing network node in 3GPP
management system. The way of managing the Management Function are modelled in
corresponding management function IOC.**
**The Management Functions are managed by corresponding management function
IOC:**
  * Management of D-SON function of ANR in TS 28.541 DANRManagementFunction IOC
  * Management capabilities of Distributed SON Energy Saving (ES) functions in TS 28.541 DESManagementFunction IOC
  * Management capabilities of Centralized SON Energy Saving (ES) functions in TS 28.541 CESManagementFunction IOC
**Editor's note: other management functions to be added with working progress.
The criteria for identifying what kind of ManagementFunction should be managed
is FFS.**
The following table captures the relation between the concepts and related
models**:**
**Concepts** **Illustration of Related Management Models**
* * *
TS 28.533 Management Function The corresponding XXXManagementFunction IOC is
used to support the managing of XXXMnF. TR 21.905 Network Element A network
element is represented by ManagedElement IOC defined in TS 28.622. TS 28.533 /
TS 23.501 Network Function A Network function is represented by
ManagedFunction IOC defined in TS 28.622.
**It's recommended to document the descriptions of ManagementFunction IOCs and
related MnF to improve the readability in Rel-18.**
# 5 Conclusion and Recommendation
## 5.1 Issue #1 Scope of specifications
## 5.1.1 Solution #1-1 scope of 28.533 [2]
It is recommended to:
a. Intro _duce the limitation that the TS is not valid for 2G, 3G and 4G in
the Scope clause.\ b. Introduce text that 28.533 [2] is valid for SBMA._
_as a maintenance CR._
## 5.2 Issue #3 Reference errors
## 5.2.1 Solution #3-1 Make not used references void
It is recommended to:
a. _Make the reference to 32.101 [3] void in 28.533 [2]._
_as a maintenance CR._
## 5.3 Issue #4 SBMA supporting management of 5G SA and NSA scenarios
Two management options are identified for 5G SA and NSA in section 4.4.2.
It is recommended that in Rel-17 the NG-RAN management Option#2 is to be
supported by specifying YANG and YAML solution sets in 28.659 and 28.663.
28.622 and 28.623 needs to be clarified on which specific part are IRP
specific, SBMA specific and which parts are valid both for IRP architecture
and SBMA.
## 5.4 Issue #7 Inventory missing in 5G
Update the specifications for inventory 3GPP TS 28.631 [34], 3GPP TS 28.632
[35] and 3GPP TS 28.633 [36] to be valid in Rel-17 for SBMA.
Extend the Work item NSA_SBMA to include inventory TSs.
## 5.5 Issue #5: SBMA supporting management architecture and frameworks in
other SDOs
3GPP SBMA is aligned with ZSM framework reference architecture, and related
description is captured in TS 28.533[2]. No further modification is needed to
existing specifications.
#