# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines operation of the background acoustic noise
evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding and comfort noise generation in
Mobile Stations (MSs) and Base Station Systems (BSSs) during Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX) on Enhanced Full Rate speech traffic channels within the
digital cellular telecommunications system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct operation
of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding
and comfort noise generation in Mobile Stations (MSs) and Base Station Systems
(BSSs) during Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) on Enhanced Full Rate speech
traffic channels.
The requirements described in the present document are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM MSs capable of supporting the Enhanced Full Rate
speech traffic channel.
The receiver requirements are mandatory for implementation in all GSM BSSs
capable of supporting the Enhanced Full Rate speech traffic channel, the
transmitter requirements only for those where downlink DTX will be used.
In case of discrepancy between the requirements described in the present
document and the fixed point computational description of these requirements
contained in GSM 06.53 [2], the description in GSM 06.53 [2] will prevail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.53: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); ANSI-C
code for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[3] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[4] GSM 06.61: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Substitution and muting of lost frame for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
traffic channels\".
[5] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**frame:** time interval of 20 ms corresponding to the time segmentation of
the Enhanced Full Rate speech transcoder, also used as a short term traffic
frame.
**SID frame:** frame characterized by the SID (SIlence Descriptor) codeword.
It conveys information on the acoustic background noise.
**SID codeword:** fixed bit pattern for labelling a traffic frame as a SID
frame.
**SID field:** bit positions of the SID codeword within a SID frame.
**speech frame:** traffic frame that cannot be classified as a SID frame.
**VAD flag:** Voice Activity Detection flag.
**SP flag:** SPeech flag.
Other definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM
06.60 [3] and GSM 06.81 [5]. The overall operation of DTX is described in GSM
06.81 [5].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply.
Boldface symbols are used for vector variables.
Unquantized LSF vector
Quantized LSF vector
> _m_ th unquantized LSF vector of the frame
>
> _m_ th quantized LSF vector of the frame
>
> Reference LSF parameter vector
>
> Averaged LSF parameter vector
>
> Unquantized fixed codebook gain
>
> Quantized fixed codebook gain
>
> Reference fixed codebook gain
>
> Averaged fixed codebook gain
>
> Linear prediction residual signal
>
> Computed LSF parameter prediction residual
>
> Quantized LSF parameter prediction residual
>
> Computed fixed codebook gain correction factor
>
> Quantized fixed codebook gain correction factor
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BSS Base Station Subsystem
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
LP Linear Prediction
LSF Line Spectral Frequency
LSP Line Spectral Pair
MS Mobile Station
RX Receive
SID SIlence Descriptor
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
A basic problem when using DTX is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the radio
transmission is cut, resulting in discontinuities of the background noise.
Since the DTX switching can take place rapidly, it has been found that this
effect can be very annoying for the listener - especially in a car environment
with high background noise levels. In bad cases, the speech may be hardly
intelligible.
The present document specifies the way to overcome this problem by generating
on the receive (RX) side synthetic noise similar to the transmit (TX) side
background noise. The comfort noise parameters are estimated on the TX side
and transmitted to the RX side before the radio transmission is switched off
and at a regular low rate afterwards. This allows the comfort noise to adapt
to the changes of the noise on the TX side.
# 5 Functions on the transmit (TX) side
The comfort noise evaluation algorithm uses the following parameters of the
GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech encoder, defined in GSM 06.60 [3]:
\- the unquantized and quantized Linear Prediction (LP) parameters, using the
Line Spectral Pair (LSP) representation, where the unquantized Line Spectral
Frequency (LSF) vector is given by , the quantized LSF vector is given by ,
and the two sets of unquantized and quantized LSF vectors (one for each half
of a frame) are given by , , and , respectively;
\- the quantized fixed-codebook gain .
The algorithm also computes the following parameters to assist in comfort
noise generation:
\- the reference LSF parameter vector (average of the quantized LSF parameters
of the hangover period);
\- the averaged LSF parameter vector (average of the LSF parameters of the
eight most recent frames);
\- the reference fixed codebook gain (average of the quantized fixed codebook
gain values of the hangover period);
\- the averaged fixed codebook gain (average of the fixed codebook gain values
of the eight most recent frames);
\- the unquantized fixed codebook gain .
These parameters give information on the level (, , , ) and the spectrum (, ,
, , , ) of the background noise.
Two of the evaluated comfort noise parameters ( and ) are encoded into a
special frame, called a Silence Descriptor (SID) frame, for transmission to
the RX side. Since the reference LSF parameter vector and the reference fixed
codebook gain can be evaluated in the same way in the encoder and decoder, as
given in clause 5.1, no transmission of these parameters is necessary.
The averaged LSF parameter and fixed codebook gain values, and , are computed
in the encoder using both quantized and unquantized parameter values if the
period of the eight most recent frames (the SID averaging period) is
overlapping with the hangover period (the parameters from the frames
overlapping with the hangover period have quantized values, while the
parameters of the more recent frames of the SID averaging period have
unquantized values). If the period of the eight most recent frames is non-
overlapping with the hangover period, the averaged LSF parameter and fixed
codebook gain values are computed using only unquantized parameter values.
The SID frame also serves to initiate the comfort noise generation on the
receive side, as a SID frame is always sent at the end of a speech burst,
i.e., before the radio transmission is terminated.
The scheduling of SID or speech frames on the radio path is described in GSM
06.81 [5].
## 5.1 Background acoustic noise evaluation
The comfort noise parameters to be encoded into a SID frame are calculated
over N = 8 consecutive frames marked with VAD = 0, as follows:
The averaged LSF parameter vector of the frame _i_ shall be computed according
to the equation:
(1)
where:
is the _m_ th (unquantized) LSF parameter vector of the current frame _i_ (_n
=_ 0);
is the _m_ th (quantized or unquantized) LSF parameter vector of one of the
last frames (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_n_ is the averaging period index (_n =_ 0, 1,..., 7);
_m_ is the LSF parameter vector index within a frame (1 or 2);
_i_ is the frame index.
NOTE: When the averaging is performed at the end of the hangover period (first
SID update), all of the LSF parameter vectors of the 7 previous frames (the
hangover period) have quantized values, while the LSF parameter vectors of the
current frame _i_ have unquantized values. In the subsequent SID updates, the
LSF parameter vectors of the SID averaging period in the frames overlapping
with the hangover period have quantized values, while the parameter vectors of
the more recent frames of the SID averaging period have unquantized values.
The averaged LSF parameter vector of the frame _i_ is encoded using the same
encoding tables that are also used by the GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech codec
for the encoding of the non-averaged LSF parameter vectors in ordinary speech
encoding mode, but the quantization algorithm is modified in order to support
the quantization of comfort noise. The LSF parameter prediction residual to be
quantized is obtained according to the following equation:
(2)
where:
is the averaged LSF parameter vector at the current frame _i_
is the reference LSF parameter vector
is the computed LSF parameter prediction residual at the current frame _i_
_i_ is the frame index;
NOTE: This prediction residual is used for both halves of the frame in the
quantization algorithm. The computation of the reference LSF parameter vector
is made on the basis of the quantized LSF parameters, and , by averaging the
parameters over the hangover period of 7 frames, according to the following
equation:
${\hat{f}}^{\text{ref}} = \frac{1}{7}\sum_{n = 1}^{7}\left( \frac{1}{2}\sum_{m
= 1}^{2}{\hat{f}}^{(m)}\left( k - n \right) \right)$ (3)
where:
${\hat{f}}^{(m)}\left( k - n \right)$ is the _m_ th quantized LSF parameter
vector of one of the frames of the hangover period\ (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_n_ is the hangover period frame index (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_m_ is the LSF parameter index within a frame (1 or 2);
_k_ is the frame index.
For each comfort noise insertion period, the computation of the reference LSF
parameter vector is done only once at the end of the hangover period and for
the rest of the comfort noise insertion period will be frozen. The reference
LSF parameter vector is evaluated in the decoder in the same way as in the
encoder, because during the hangover period the same LSF parameter vectors are
available at the encoder and decoder. An exception to this are the cases when
transmission errors are severe enough to cause the parameters to become
unusable, and the frame substitution procedure is activated (see GSM 06.61
[4]). In these cases, the modified parameters obtained from the frame
substitution procedure are used instead of the received parameters.
The fixed codebook gain values shall be averaged and updated in every subframe
according to the equation:
(4)
where:
is the (unquantized) fixed codebook gain in the current subframe (_n_ =0);
is the (quantized or unquantized) fixed codebook gain in one of the past
subframes (_n =_ 1,..., 28);
_n_ is the averaging period index (_n =_ 0, 1,..., 28);
NOTE: When the averaging is started at the end of the hangover period (first
SID update), all of the fixed codebook gains of the 28 (_n_ =1,..., 28)
previous subframes (the hangover period) have quantized values, while the
fixed codebook gains of the current subframe has an unquantized value. In the
subsequent SID updates, the fixed codebook gain values of the SID averaging
period in the subframes overlapping with the hangover period have quantized
values, while the parameter vectors of the more recent subframes of the SID
averaging period have unquantized values.
Since most parts of the subframe processing clause in the encoder are switched
off when the SP flag = \"0\" (to minimize the average complexity of the speech
encoder algorithm), the unquantized fixed codebook gain is not directly
available for gain averaging. Due to this, the unquantized fixed codebook gain
is separately computed, based on the energy of the LP residual signal in each
subframe, according to the following equation:
(5)
where:
is the unquantized fixed codebook gain of the current subframe _j_ ;
is the _l_ th sample of the LP residual in the current subframe _j_ ;
_j_ is the subframe index (_j =_ 1,..., 4);
_l_ is the sample index (_l =_ 1,..., 40).
NOTE: The computed energy of the LP residual signal is divided by the value of
10 to yield the energy for one excitation pulse, since during comfort noise
generation, the subframe excitation signal (pseudo noise) has 10 non-zero
samples, whose amplitudes can take values of +1 or ‑1.
The averaged fixed codebook gain value of the current subframe is encoded
using the non‑averaged fixed codebook gain values in ordinary speech encoding
mode, but the quantization algorithm is modified in order to support comfort
noise quantization. The fixed codebook gain correction factor to be quantized
is obtained according to the following equation:
(6)
where:
is the averaged fixed codebook gain value in the current subframe;
is the reference fixed codebook gain;
The computation of the reference fixed codebook gain is made on the basis of
the quantized fixed codebook gain parameters , by averaging the parameter
values over the hangover period of 7 frames according to the following
equation:
${\hat{g}}_{c}^{\text{ref}} = \frac{1}{7}\sum_{n = 1}^{7}\left(
\frac{1}{4}\sum_{j = 1}^{4}{\hat{g}}_{c}\left( k - n \right)\left( j \right)
\right)$ (7)
where:
${\hat{g}}_{c}\left( k - n \right)\left( j \right)$ is the quantized fixed
codebook gain parameter value in subframe _j_ of one of the frames of the
hangover period (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_n_ is the hangover period frame index (_n =_ 1, 2,..., 7);
_k_ is the frame index;
_j_ is the subframe index (_j =_ 1,..., 4);
For each comfort noise insertion period, the computation of the reference
fixed codebook gain is done only once at the end of the hangover period and
for the rest of the comfort noise insertion period will be frozen. The
reference fixed codebook gain can be evaluated in the decoder in the same way
as in the encoder, because during the hangover period the same quantized fixed
codebook gain values are available at the encoder and decoder. An exception to
this are the cases when transmission errors are severe enough to cause the
parameters to become unusable, and the frame substitution procedure is
activated (see GSM 06.61 [4]). In these cases, the modified parameters
obtained from the frame substitution procedure are used instead of the
received parameters.
The hangover period is defined in GSM 06.81 [5]. It is a period added at the
end of a speech burst in which no voice activity is detected (VAD flag =
\"0\"), but the speech encoder stays for the processing of 7 speech frames in
speech encoding mode (SP flag = \"1\"). This hangover period and the first SID
frame are used for averaging the comfort noise parameters contained in the
first SID frame.
## 5.2 Modification of the speech encoding algorithm during SID frame
generation
When the SP flag is equal to \"0\" the speech encoding algorithm is modified
in the following way:
\- The non-averaged LP parameters which are used to derive the filter
coefficients of the filters and of the speech encoder are not quantized.
\- The open loop pitch lag search is performed, but the closed loop pitch lag
search is inactivated. The adaptive codebook gain is set to zero.
\- No fixed codebook search is made. In each subframe the pulse positions and
signs of the fixed codebook excitation are locally generated using uniformly
distributed pseudo random numbers. The excitation pulses take values of +1 and
‑1 when comfort noise is generated. The fixed codebook comfort noise
excitation generation algorithm is defined in clause 6.2.
\- The memory of weighting filter is set to zero, i.e., the memory of is not
updated.
\- The ordinary LP parameter quantization algorithm is inactive. At the end of
the hangover period the reference LSF parameter vector is calculated as
defined in clause 5.1. For the rest of the comfort noise insertion period is
frozen. The averaged LSF parameter vector is calculated each time a new SID
frame is to be sent to the Radio Subsystem. This parameter vector is encoded
into the SID frame as defined in clause 5.1.
\- The ordinary fixed codebook gain quantization algorithm is inactive. At the
end of the hangover period the reference fixed codebook gain is calculated as
defined in clause 5.1. For the rest of the comfort noise insertion period is
frozen. The averaged fixed codebook gain value is calculated each time a new
SID frame is to be sent to the Radio Subsystem. This gain value is encoded
into the SID frame as defined in clause 5.1.
\- The predictor memories of the ordinary LP parameter quantization and fixed
codebook gain quantization algorithms are reset when SP flag = \"0\", so that
the quantizers start from their initial states when the speech activity begins
again.
\- The computation of the unquantized fixed codebook gain is performed based
on the energy of the LP residual signal.
## 5.3 SID-frame encoding
The SID-frame encoding algorithm exploits the fact that only some of the 244
bits in a frame are needed to code the comfort noise parameters. The other
bits can then be used to mark the SID-frame by means of a fixed bit pattern,
called the SID code word.
The quantization indices of the LP parameters are replaced by the quantization
indices derived from the averaged LSF parameter vector . The encoding of the
quantization indices is defined in clause 5.1.
The fixed codebook gain quantization indices are replaced by the quantization
index derived from the averaged fixed codebook gain value , encoded as defined
in clause 5.1, repeated four times inside the frame.
The SID code word consists of 95 bits which are all set to one. The bits of
the SID code word are inserted in the SID field as defined in table 1\. All of
the bits in the SID field are in the error protection Class I.
The remaining bits in the SID frame are set to zero. The use of these bits is
for further study.
Table 1: SID codeword
+-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Number of bits | Bit positions | | | | | | | | (b0 = LSB) | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP LAG 1 | 2 | b0, b1 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP LAG 2 | 3 | b0, b1, b2 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP LAG 3 | 2 | b0, b1 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP LAG 4 | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP GAIN 1 | 3 | b0, b1, b2 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP GAIN 2 | 3 | b0, b1, b2 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP GAIN 3 | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | LTP GAIN 4 | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 1 of 1st subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 2 of 1st subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 3 of 1st subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 4 of 1st subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 5 of 1st subfr. | 2 | b2,b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 1 of 2nd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 2 of 2nd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 3 of 2nd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 4 of 2nd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 5 of 2nd subfr. | 2 | b2,b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 1 of 3rd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 2 of 3rd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 3 of 3rd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 4 of 3rd subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 5 of 3rd subfr. | 2 | b2,b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 1 of 4th subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 2 of 4th subfr. | 2 | b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 3 of 4th subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 4 of 4th subfr. | 4 | b0, b1, b2, b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+ | PULSE 5 of 4th subfr. | 2 | b2,b3 | +-----------------------+----------------+----------------+
The parameters in table 1 are defined in GSM 06.60 [3].
# 6 Functions on the receive (RX) side
The situations in which comfort noise shall be generated on the receive side
are defined in GSM 06.81 [5]. Generally speaking, the comfort noise generation
is started or updated whenever a valid SID frame is received.
## 6.1 Averaging and decoding of the LP and fixed codebook gain parameters
When speech frames are received by the decoder the LP and the fixed codebook
gain parameters of the last seven speech frames shall be kept in memory. The
decoder counts the number of frames elapsed since the last SID frame was
updated and passed to the RSS by the encoder. Based on this count, the decoder
determines whether or not there is a hangover period at the end of the speech
burst (if at least 31 frames have elapsed since the last SID update when the
first SID frame after a speech burst arrives, the hangover period has existed
at the end of the speech burst).
As soon as a SID frame is received, and the hangover period is detected at the
end of the speech burst, the stored LP and fixed codebook gain parameters
shall be averaged to obtain the reference LSF parameter vector and the
reference fixed gain codebook value . The reference LSF parameter vector and
the reference fixed codebook gain value shall be frozen and used for the
actual comfort noise insertion period.
The averaging procedure for obtaining the reference parameters is as follows:
\- when a speech frame is received, the LSF and fixed codebook gain parameters
are decoded and stored in memory;
\- when the first SID frame is received, and the hangover period is detected
at the end of the speech burst, the stored LSF and fixed codebook gain
parameters are averaged in the same way as in the speech encoder as follows
(see also clause 5.1):
${\hat{f}}^{\text{ref}} = \frac{1}{7}\sum_{n = 1}^{7}\left( \frac{1}{2}\sum_{m
= 1}^{2}{\hat{f}}^{(m)}\left( k - n \right) \right)$ (8)
where:
${\hat{f}}^{(m)}\left( k - n \right)$ is the _m_ th quantized LSF parameter
vector of one of the frames of the hangover period\ (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_n_ is the hangover period frame index (_n =_ 1, 2,..., 7);
_m_ is the LSF parameter index within a frame (1 or 2);
_k_ is the frame index.
and
${\hat{g}}_{c}^{\text{ref}} = \frac{1}{7}\sum_{n = 1}^{7}\left(
\frac{1}{4}\sum_{j = 1}^{4}{\hat{g}}_{c}\left( k - n \right)\left( j \right)
\right)$ (9)
where:
${\hat{g}}_{c}\left( k - n \right)\left( j \right)$ is the quantized fixed
codebook gain parameter value in subframe _j_ of one of the frames of the
hangover period (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_n_ is the hangover period frame index (_n =_ 1,..., 7);
_k_ is the frame index;
_j_ is the subframe index (_j =_ 1,..., 4).
Once the reference LSF parameter vector has been computed, the averaged LSF
parameter vector of the frame _i_ (encoded into the SID frame) can be
reproduced at the decoder each time a SID update frame is received, according
to the equation:
(10)
where:
is the quantized, averaged LSF parameter vector at the current frame _i_ to be
used for comfort noise generation;
is the reference LSF parameter vector;
is the received quantized LSF parameter prediction residual at the current
frame _i_ ;
_i_ is the frame index.
The averaged fixed codebook gain of the frame _i_ (encoded into the SID frame)
can be similarly reproduced at the decoder each time a SID update frame is
received, according to the following equation:
(11)
where:
is the averaged fixed codebook gain value in the current frame _i_ to be used
for comfort noise generation;
is the reference fixed codebook gain;
is the received quantized fixed codebook gain correction factor in the current
frame _i_ ;
_i_ is the frame index.
## 6.2 Comfort noise generation and updating
The comfort noise generation procedure uses the GSM Enhanced Full Rate speech
decoder algorithm defined in GSM 06.60 [3].
When comfort noise is to be generated, the various encoded parameters are set
as follows:
In each subframe, the pulse positions and signs of the fixed codebook
excitation are locally generated using uniformly distributed pseudo random
numbers. The excitation pulses take values of +1 and ‑1 when comfort noise is
generated. The fixed codebook comfort noise excitation generation algorithm
works as follows:
for (i = 0; i \< 40; i++) code[i] = 0;
for (i = 0; i \< 10; i++) {
j = random(4);
idx = j * 10 + I;
if (random(2) == 1) code[idx] = 1;
else code[idx] = ‑1;
}
where:
**code[0..39]** fixed codebook excitation buffer;
**random(4)** generates a random integer value, uniformly distributed between
0 and 3;
**random(2)** generates a random integer value, uniformly distributed between
0 and 1.
The fixed codebook gain values are those received in the SID frame.
The adaptive codebook gain values in each subframe are set to 0.
The pitch delay values in each subframe are set to 40.
The LP filter parameters used are those received in the SID frame.
The predictor memories of the ordinary LP parameter and fixed codebook gain
quantization algorithms are reset when SP flag = \"0\", so that the quantizers
start from their initial states when the speech activity begins again.
With these parameters, the speech decoder now performs the standard operations
described in GSM 06.60 [3] and synthesizes comfort noise.
Updating of the comfort noise parameters (fixed codebook gain and LP filter
parameters) occurs each time a valid SID frame is received, as described in
GSM 06.81 [5].
When updating the comfort noise, the parameters above should preferably be
interpolated over the SID update period to obtain smooth transitions.
# 7 Computational details
A low level description has been prepared in form of an ANSI C source code
which is part of GSM 06.53 [2].
#